# Gather - Wk12

[Back](../gather.md)

- [Gather - Wk12](#gather---wk12)
  - [Non-Functional Requirements](#non-functional-requirements)
    - [Finding Non-Functional Requirements](#finding-non-functional-requirements)
      - [Read the functional requirements](#read-the-functional-requirements)
      - [ISO 9126 Quality Standard](#iso-9126-quality-standard)
    - [Quality Factor models](#quality-factor-models)
    - [Factors vs. Criteria](#factors-vs-criteria)
    - [Non-Functional Metrics](#non-functional-metrics)
    - [Testable Non-Functional Requirements](#testable-non-functional-requirements)
    - [Examples](#examples)
  - [Non-Functional Requirements Types](#non-functional-requirements-types)
    - [Performance Requirements](#performance-requirements)
      - [Performance Metrics](#performance-metrics)
    - [Performance Testing](#performance-testing)
      - [Load Testing](#load-testing)

---

Understand the importance of non-functional requirements
Identify and gather non-functional requirements
List and explain quality factors and criteria
Understand the characteristics of good quality metrics
Identify non-functional requirements types and testing
Understand accessibility requirements, guidelines and standards

## Non-Functional Requirements

- `non functional requirement`

  - define how a system behaves and performs,
  - in software system engineering, a **software requirement** that describes not what the software will do, but **how the software will do it**,

  - for example, software performance requirements, software external interface requirements, design constraints, and software quality attributes.

- `Non-functional requirements`
  - **difficult to test**; therefore, they are usually **evaluated subjectively**.”

---

- The purpose of **“identifying** non-functional requirements” is to **get** a handle on these absolutely necessary requirements that are normally not ‘functional.’
- Understand the **user’s expectations**
- During **Analysis**, this information is **speculative**.
  - Will be **refined later**.
  - Capture now, Realize later…
- Non-functional requirements
  - Consists of **Constraints** that must be adhered to during development (design and implementation)
  - Key word: ‘Constraints.’

---

- Usually **stated informally**, and so are:
  - often **contradictory**
  - **difficult to enforce** during development
  - **difficult to evaluate** for the customer prior to delivery
- Hard to make them **measurable** requirements
  - Need to be stated in a way that we can **measure** how well they’ve been met
- Place **restrictions** on the product being developed, the development process, and specify **external constraints** that the product must meet.

---

- Asking The Right Questions

  - `Functional`

    - What inputs the system should accept?
    - What outputs the system should produce?
    - What data the system should store?
    - What transaction should the system perform?
    - What actions/activities should the system perform?

  - `Non-Functional`
    - Is it fast?
    - Is it nice to look at?
    - Easy to use?
    - Reliable?

---

### Finding Non-Functional Requirements

- Talk to the **users**
- Talk to the **support teams**
- Talk to the **technical** teams, **designers**, **architects**, **developers** etc.
- Read the **documentation**
- **Research** the industry
- Understand the **standards** actual and perceived
- **Observe** similar systems

---

#### Read the functional requirements

- NFRs are often buried in the **functional requirements**
  - e.g., An application must allow a user to make a payment using a credit card
  - How should the form look?
  - How easy should it be to read or use?
  - How fast should the process be?
  - Should it be an intuitive process?

---

#### ISO 9126 Quality Standard

- The objective of the `ISO/IEC 9126` standard is to **address** some of the well-known **human biases** that can adversely affect the delivery and perception of a software development project
- The standard is divided into four parts:
  - **Quality** model
  - **Internal** metrics
  - **External** metrics
  - Quality in **use metrics**.

---

- **Quality**

  - Classifies software quality in a **structured set of characteristics** and sub-characteristics

- **Internal Metrics**

  - Those which do **not rely** on software execution (**static measure**)

- **External metrics**

  - Applicable to **running** software

- **Quality-in-use metrics**
  - Are only available when the final product is used in **real conditions**. Ideally, the internal quality determines the external quality and external quality determines quality in use.

---

- `ISO 9126` - non-functional requirements linked to “**quality in use**”, which is **users experience** when using the system.
- Since the users’ experience is subjective, many of the quality factors will also be **subjective**.

---

### Quality Factor models

- `Software Quality factors`
  - can be related to as our **non-functional test types** expressed as customer or user concerns.
- `McCall’s Quality Factors`
  - McCall has 11 factors and 3 categories. Defined in 1977
  - Three categories:
    - **Product Operation Factors**
      - How well it **runs…**. Correctness, reliability, efficiency, integrity, and usability
    - **Product Revision Factors**
      - How well it can be **changed**, tested, and redeployed, Maintainability - flexibility; testability
    - **Product Transition Factors**
      - How well it can be moved to **different platforms** and interface with other systems - Portability; Reusability; Interoperability

---

### Factors vs. Criteria

- **Quality Factors**

  - These are **customer**-related concerns
  - e.g., efficiency, integrity, reliability, correctness, survivability, usability,...

- **Design Criteria**
  - These are **technical** (development-oriented) **concerns** such as anomaly
  - management, completeness, consistency, traceability, visibility,...

---

### Non-Functional Metrics

- In software development, a `metric` (noun) is the **measurement** of a particular **characteristic** of a program's **performance** or efficiency.
  - Similarly in network routing, a metric is a measure used in calculating the next host to route a packet to.
- A `metric` is sometimes used directly and sometimes as an **element in an algorithm** .
- Must **Quantify** the requirement
- We must have a way to measure the requirement or expectation - metrics".
- A **benchmark** includes metrics.
- `Benchmark`
  - A set of **conditions/criteria** against which a product or system is **measured**.

---

- Metrics Must be:
  - **Measurable** – can have some sort of scale applied
  - **Consistent** and **unambiguous** (objective) - e.g. not someone's opinion of how complex something was
  - Specified with **precision** - i.e. a range in which measured values have to fall
  - I **MEANINGFUL**!! - there must be some reason to believe that numbers for the metric have something to do with something we care about!
  - Understandable – should not take special or hard to achieve knowledge to understand
  - Simple and **computable**
  - Easy and **cost-effective** to obtain
  - Able to be **validated** for accuracy and reliability
  - Relevant to the Quality factors and criteria

---

### Testable Non-Functional Requirements

- If we will state requirements that are **testable**, we at least need to go to the criteria level.
- Once you understand the **criteria** you will use to evaluate the factor you can determine which **metrics** you will **collect**.
- During **Analysis**:
  - Identify the relative **importance** of each **quality factor**
  - From the **customer’s** point of view!
  - Identify the **design criteria** on which these factors depend
  - Make the requirements measurabl**e** by defining the metrics and benchmark for assessing the product

---

### Examples

- Non-Testable Requirements

  - Payment can be made via **all available** payment methods
  - Reservation is acknowledged and customer is **notified**
  - All submitted information is **stored** in the system
  - All **incorrect** user inputs are flagged by the system
  - Protection against spam is working as expected??

- **Testable** Requirements
  - Payment can be made via **PayPal, Debit or Credit Cards**
  - An acknowledgement **email** is sent to the customer after completing the reservation
  - Information from the **form** is **stored** in the registrations **database**
  - Conflicting reservation, unauthorized reservations, and submissions missing payment details or address are **flagged** and added to the failed requests table
  - You can get more technical and define **Failed requests** (response codes: 407, 404, 409,500) but that is usually defined by the developers

---

## Non-Functional Requirements Types

- These Categories cover the most **common objectives**.
  - Performance
    - Load
    - Stress
    - Volume
  - Failover
  - Recovery
  - Usability
  - Scalability
  - Availability
  - Reliability

---

### Performance Requirements

- **Evaluates** the **overall performance** of the system. (Hardware and software)
- Evaluates **response times** of several business-critical processes/transactions
- Frequently **not** performed against a **specification**
- Frequently used as part of the **process of performance profile tuning**
- Helps to **identify** the "weakest link" or **“bottleneck”**, a part of the system which, if it is made to respond faster, will result in the overall system running faster
- Can be measured during **development**, **pre-production** and during **production** as part of performance monitoring

---

#### Performance Metrics

- Performance requires a:
  - **Metric** of **amount of work** performed in **unit time**
  - **Deadline** that must be met
- Example
  - **1000 transactions per second**
  - 3 second **average latency** for a **request**
  - The homepage supports **2000 users per hour**, with a maximum response time of **6 seconds** on Chrome browser

---

- `Latency`:
  - The **delay** before a **transfer of data begins** following an instruction for its transfer.
- `Throughput`:
  - **Measure** of the **amount of work** an application must perform **in unit time**
- Transactions **per second**
- Messages **per minute**
- Is required throughput:
  - **Average**?
  - **Peak**?
- Many systems have **low** average but **high** peak throughput requirements

---

- `Response Time`
  - **Measure of the latency** an application exhibits in **processing a request**
  - Usually measured in **(milli)seconds**
  - Often an important metric for users
- Is required response time:
  - **Guaranteed**?
  - **Average**?
  - E.g. 95% of responses in sub-4 seconds, and all within 10 seconds

---

- `Hardware performance`
  - CPU utilization
  - Memory utilization
  - Thread performance
  - Capacity management
- Requests per second
- Average response time
- Uptime
- Error rates
- Count of open file descriptors

---

### Performance Testing

- Performance Test
  - Speed
  - Resource
  - Usage
  - Response Time
  - Stability
  - Throughput

---

#### Load Testing

Performed to determine a system's behavior under both normal and anticipated peak load conditions
Load testing is especially important if the application, system or service will be subject to a service level agreement (SLA)
Simulates real-world load on any software, application, or website or system
 Determines if a system, piece of software, or computing device can handle high loads given a high demand of end users
May be performed end to end or against sub-components.
A load test enables you to measure response times, throughput rates, and resource-utilization levels, and to identify your application’s breaking point, assuming that the breaking point occurs below the peak load condition. (Microsoft)
Peak load -  the heaviest demand that would be generated at peak user times—for example, credit card verification between noon and 1 PM on Christmas Eve

