# Doc - Wk02

[Back](../../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk02](#doc---wk02)
  - [Web Applications](#web-applications)
    - [Websites vs Web Applications](#websites-vs-web-applications)
    - [URL](#url)
    - [Core Components](#core-components)
    - [Internet Requirements](#internet-requirements)
    - [Web App Architecture](#web-app-architecture)
      - [Requests and Responses](#requests-and-responses)
      - [“Stateless” Protocol](#stateless-protocol)
    - [Components of Web Applications](#components-of-web-applications)
    - [Web Site Hosting](#web-site-hosting)
    - [Security – SSL / TLS](#security--ssl--tls)
    - [Intranets](#intranets)
    - [Web Applications – Running Locally](#web-applications--running-locally)
    - [Qustion](#qustion)

---

Define the common components of web applications in the context of technology based information systems.
Describe the role of the technical system analyst in researching and documenting web based components of technology systems
Describe/capture in various web application configurations and interfacing software for the individual software components & where to find them.
Understand technologies and protocols used by the world wide web.
Understand client-server architecture as it relates to web based systems.

## Web Applications

### Websites vs Web Applications

- `website`
  - a collection of **web pages** under **one domain name** accessible over the internet.
  - include only static content, it will not change based on user input.
- `web application`
  - a software **application** or **program** that executes over the internet.
  - can include both **static** and **dynamic** content.
    - Thus they can be much more interactive, allowing for additional functionality such as login screens, dynamic screens based on user preferences, searches, displaying the number of visitors on the page, weather conditions for the city the user lives in, etc.
  - Examples: Facebook, Gmail, Twitter .

---

### URL

- The first thing we do to access any web application or site is type in the `URL`, or `address`.

  - Open up a new browser and enter the URL below: https://fanshaweonline.ca/

- Have you ever noticed what happens after we press the enter key?

  - https://www.fanshaweonline.ca/d2l/home
  - Not only did we get to the site but our URL has changed!

- What does our URL tell us?
  - The **first part** of the URL is the **protocol** will always be http or https.
  - Our Fanshawe web application is using `https`, this tells us it is making use of `SSL`.
    - `https` is more **secure** than http as https will **encrypt** information passed over the internet.

---

- The **2nd part** of the URL is the called the `domain name`, it is a key piece of information as it is used to **find individual websites** on the internet:

  - https://www.fanshaweonline.ca/d2l/home

- The **3rd part** of this URL (everything after the domain name and, if present, before a question mark) shows us **subdirectories**, if applicable.
  - For our Fanshawe site, we know at this point we are on a web page that could be found under the subdirectory “d2l/home” on the web server hosting the Fanshawe website.
  - https://www.fanshaweonline.ca/d2l/home

---

### Core Components

- **Core structural components** common to all web applications:
  - `Client`
    - The part of the application that **the user (“client”) interacts with** using web browser software (such as Microsoft Edge, Firefox, Chrome) and **the device(s) the web browser** is running on.
    - Any **code** executed on the client is called “`client-side code`”.
  - `Web Server`
    - The **software** (such as IIS or Apache) that is **responsible for storing, processing and delivering web pages** (files) to the client and/or the computer system (server) this software resides on.
    - This is also where all the **code files** are normally located.
    - Any **code** executed on the server is called “`server-side code`”.

---

### Internet Requirements

- there are some other requirements related to the Internet itself:
  - **Internet connection**:
    - in order to send information from web clients to servers over the internet, you need a working internet connection.
  - **TCP/IP Protocol**:
    - this protocol **defines the rules for how information moves across** the internet.
  - **HTTP Protocol**:
    - this protocol defines a common language for **clients and servers to communicate with each other** over the world wide web.
  - **DNS (Domain Name Server) Servers**:
    - you can think of this as the address book for the internet. When you type in an URL for a particular website, a DNS server will translate the domain name, such as google.ca, into the actual IP address (ie. 172.217.1.165) that is used to locate the server the website is running on.

---

### Web App Architecture

#### Requests and Responses

- Clients and server components of web applications **communicate with each other** using a `Request-Response model` (HTTP protocol).

- This is what happens when a web application / site is accessed:
  - The user (client) **enters the name** of the site in the web browser.
  - The **browser** determines website server address (via DNS server) and **sends a request to the IP address** of the web server using HTTP/HTTPS.
  - The **web server** processes the **request**.
    - This may include **retrieving simple static** HTML pages, **building dynamic content** or **accessing data**, depending on the request.
  - The web server **sends a response** back to the client and you can now see the content of the page.

---

#### “Stateless” Protocol

- `HTTP` being a **“stateless” protocol**
  - by **default** data is not **saved between requests**.
    - **Each request** sent to the server is treated **independently**
    - **None** of the information in the request or response is **retained** after the response is sent back to the client.
    - For example:
      - User **clicks** on “login” button on Client.
      - Request #1 **sent** with data: username=admin, password=Tvs1!
      - Server **processes** request, including database lookup of user type.
      - **Response** #1 returns customized web page based on user type
      - User **clicks** on a button on new page, generates **Request** #2
      - Request #2 does not know the values for username, password or user type, as none of the data from Request #1 was saved!

---

- **State**

  - Being able to **save information between requests** (tracking state of app) is functionality we would want for most web apps.
    - For example, we may want to **track user information** to **customize** web site for different types of users.
    - A web app will perform better if we can load this information once and refer back to it as needed than reloading the page from the server each time we need it.

- State management techniques allow us **to store and access information between requests**.
- There are different options available:
  - Some **client-based techniques**
    - `QueryString`, `Cookies`
  - Some **server-based techniques**
    - **Application State**, **Session State**, **Database Support**

---

### Components of Web Applications

- we also have **optional components** to consider, as follows:

  - `Database Server`:

    - it is quite common for web applications to **require database access**.
    - If this is the case, then a DBMS and the database itself becomes part of the architecture.
      - Although it is possible to have both the database and web server **on the same physical machine**, for security and performance reasons, often we will have a **separate machine** to act as a database server.
      - The web server will **communicate** with the database server, if needed, when it is processing requests.

  - `Application Servers (optional)`

    - The **purpose** of an application server is to p**rovide business logic** to client software applications.
    - In terms of web architecture, an example could be a web server making a **call to a service** running on the application server to get that information.
    - **Web servers** originally could only **handle process** `HTTP` requests that produced **static pages**, thus if your application required **dynamic** content you would need an application server.
    - However, with many modern web servers being now able to **produce dynamic content** via **calls to other server side programs** such as CGI scripts, Active Server Pages, etc. the distinction between the two is less clear

  - `Options`
    - there can be **slight differences** in the overall web application architecture **depending on the complexity and requirements** of the web application and web technologies chosen.
      - For example, we could have **one or more** `web servers`.
      - We could have **no** **database** whatsoever (less likely, but definitely possible for small businesses with simple websites), **one** `database server` or more than one.
      - We could have a `application server` and a `web server`, or just a web server.
      - **Different technologies and tools** could be chosen for both the client and server components (ie. for server side, we may use IIS web server and .NET vs Apache web server and PHP to name just 2 possibilities of many)

---

### Web Site Hosting

- `hosting a website`

  - **deploy** a website onto a web server making that website **accessible** to the internet

- Consideration:
  - whether or not to **host** their website **internally** or hire a **3rd party** company to host our website.
  - Can your organization’s IT **infrastructure** support hosting?
  - Can you provide a web server (Enterprise Server hardware recommended) or servers that is **available 24 hours** a day and able to handle constant traffic and heavy load from the internet?
  - Is your **Internet connection** good enough? (dedicated high-speed internet connection, enough **bandwidth**)
  - Does the organization have **staff** with the technical **skills** needed to setup, support and maintain the web server?
  - Have we considered how we will keep our web site **secure**?

---

- Many companies today are **using web hosting companies** to host their websites, instead of hosting a site themselves.
  - This isn’t limited to just small companies. Some **large companies**, such as Netflix and Paypal, chose to hire 3rd party providers to host their websites.
  - Some companies that do host their own websites on their **own servers** include Facebook, Google, Amazon and Microsoft.
  - There are many **different hosting types** to choose from, allowing you to select the best option for your particular needs.

---

### Security – SSL / TLS

- `security`
  - applications running over the internet are much more **vulnerable to attack** than an application running within a computer’s private network.
- Often we need to allow our “clients” (any PC connected to the internet) to **send data across the internet** to our web server.

  - If **no security measures** are taken hackers can **potentially intercept** this data **stealing valuable information** such as account #’s and passwords, banking information etc

- `SSL (Secured Sockets Layer)`
  - a standard **security protocol** used to **encrypt** data over the internet.
  - After SSL version v3, SSL evolved into a new protocol called “`TLS” (Transport Layer Security)`.
  - Both are **cryptographic protocols** that encrypts the data being passed between clients and servers on the internet.
  - Quite often people refer to `TLS` as SSL, even though the SSL protocol hasn’t updated since 1996 and is considered depreciated and a security in that it has known `vulnerabilities`.

---

- `TLS (SSL)`
  - **encrypts data** being it is sent and **uses keys** to decipher.
    - Even if a hacker manages to intercept the data, he or she wouldn’t be able to understand it because they do not have the key.
- `TLS (SSL) certificates`

  - **digital files** found on the web server that **identify the public key and the website owner**.
  - Any web application that is passing sensitive information (ie. account #’s, passwords, credit card #’s, etc) over the internet should implement TLS (SSL)

- How do you know if a website is using TLS (SSL) protocol?
  - Website begins with `https`:// (not http)
  - Look for a closed **padlock icon** usually in address bar, of your browser but it is possible depending on your browser settings that your site is secure even though you don’t see the padlock

---

### Intranets

- `Intranets`

  - websites and/or web apps that run only on a company’s **internal network** and **not accessible from the internet**.
  - Used for **internal sites and apps** that are meant to be used only by the company’s employees.
  - **More secure** than internet site.

- How do we do it? Same way as a regular web app, except for:
  - Web server will reside on a server on the company’s **LAN**, ensuring **only employees can access** the web application.
  - We will not register a public domain name with the world wide web. Instead we will **set up a private internal DNS server**.
  - Or, if we aren’t too concerned about “user-friendliness”, we could also use in the **URL**
    - `Fully qualified domain name` of our internal web server OR
    - `IP Address` of our internal web server

---

### Web Applications – Running Locally

- Hosting Web Server **Locally** On Your **Own** Machine
  - Why do this? Developers building web applications may want to do some **initial testing** in their own development environment **before updating** test web servers with web code.
  - How do we **set up** and test locally?
    - **Install** any necessary software in your local environment (ie. web server, server-side language & database software possibly)
    - Depending on the web server software, you may need to **manually start** your web **server**.
    - We then can use **“localhost”** in URL to test the web code using the web server on our local machine instead of a remote server, ie.:
      - Instead of “http://MyWebSite.ca”, type http://localhost
      - Using “localhost” also **eliminates** the need for **Internet access** or **DNS Servers** to test locally.

---

### Qustion

- KEY Question : My company is converting an existing desktop application to a web application. As it is an internal site, the organization plans to purchase their own server machines for the web application and have our own internal software developers build it. It’s my first day on the job as a Technical System Analyst and I have been asked to recommend what type of web server software we should use? In researching options, I’ve found a number of options - how do I decide?
- Answer:
  - It depends on the application **requirements** and **business** needs. We will be covering different web technologies and how they differ more in the next module but some general questions to consider:
    - For the machine acting as our web server (whether hosting internally or via a 3rd party provider) what **operating system** will we use? The most common options are Linux/UNIX and Windows. We need to ensure our web **server software** is compatible with the OS we choose.
    - **Compatibility** with server-side languages, etc. we may want to use, ie.
    - What **security features** are available?
    - What is our **budget**? (open source web server vs more expensive)
    - How much **traffic** do we expect on our website? Is **performance** going to be a critical issue?
    - Do we have limited **resources** / **skillsets**?
