# Data Tech: wk06

[Back](../data_tech.md)

- [Data Tech: wk06](#data-tech-wk06)
  - [SQL Filtering and Sorting](#sql-filtering-and-sorting)
    - [WHERE clause](#where-clause)
    - [Dates](#dates)
    - [NULL](#null)
    - [Logical Operators – AND, OR, NOT](#logical-operators--and-or-not)
    - [Range Operators – IN, BETWEEN](#range-operators--in-between)
    - [LIKE Pattern](#like-pattern)

---

- Understand why we want to filter query results
- Understand the benefit of sorting and how
- Understand various ways to filter our result sets

## SQL Filtering and Sorting

### WHERE clause

- allows us to **filter or limit** our results, making it one of the most important SQL clauses as without it we would have to sift through huge amounts of data or only work with summarized data.

- Case Sensitive Data

  - SQL language is **not** case sensitive
    - `SELECT * FROM Customers;` = `select * from customers;`
  - the **data** itself **case-sensitive**?
    - Whether or not your database is case sensitive is **determined** by the database’s “**Collation**”
    - **Collation** controls how the data is stored and stored in the database.
      - `CS`: case sensitive
      - `CI`: case insensitive
      - **default** collation, `Latin1_General_CI_AS` (case insensitive).
        - by default: data is CI

---

### Dates

- When filtering our results by date type columns, there’s some extra things to consider due to how SQL Server stores / access dates.
- We have 3 different data types we could use for dates, which have these formats:
  - **DATE** format `YYYY-MM-DD`
  - **DATETIME** format: `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MI:SS`
  - **SMALLDATETIME** format: `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MI:SS`
- Example: `SELECT * FROM Orders WHERE OrderData = '2018-01-01;`

  - If the OrderDate column was set to a `DATE` data type, returns all matches
  - If the OrderDate was set to either of the `DATETIME` data types
    - the **time** portion of the datetime value for the column was **left blank**, returns all matches
    - a time was entered in the column, it will **not be included** in the results due to the time not being included in the criteria.

---

- the `DATETIME` data types should not be used **unless** there is a specific reason,
  - e.g., we really do need to know the time, such as perhaps if we were storing employee’s start and end times for their shifts.
  - Otherwise, we should always stick with the `DATE` data type to **avoid making things unnecessarily complicated**.
    - Columns such as Order Date, Invoice Date, for example, the time is not important so DATE data type would be the best choice.

---

### NULL

- `NULL` value

  - the absence of a value.
  - It is not a blank, or a zero, instead there is not yet a value of any kind in the column.

- Some examples of the types of columns that you would expect to initially have NULL values might be:

  - **Ship Date**
    - if we are ordering some products online, we can expect it will take some time to process the order before it is shipped.
    - The ship date would not be populated until the order is actually shipped.
  - **Termination Date**
    - if we have an employee database and we are storing termination dates, this information would not be filled in until the employee was let go or chose to leave the company.

- use `IS` to filter `NULL`
  - Because NULL is an unknown value, SQL cannot do an “equality” comparison to see if it is equal to another value.
  - Instead, it needs to simply check to see if the value is “NULL”, or unknown.

---

### Logical Operators – AND, OR, NOT

- We can apply any number of conditions we like using a combination using the following logical operators: Evaluated in order of NOT, AND, OR:

  - `NOT`: reverses meaning.
  - `AND`: evaluates to TRUE only if **all** of the conditions are “true”.
  - `OR`: evaluates to “true” if **at least one** of the conditions are “true”.
  - If two operators have equal precedence, then they will be evaluated in order **from left** to right

- **Brackets, or parenthesis**, will **override** the order operations are evaluated in so we can use them to ensure our expressions are evaluated in the way we intend.

---

### Range Operators – IN, BETWEEN

- `WHERE city IN ('New York', 'Tokyo')`
- `WHERE price BETWEEN 1.00 AND 2.00`

---

### LIKE Pattern

- The `LIKE` keyword is used in **conjunction with one or more wildcard** or place holding characters, specifically the `%` and `_`.
- The percent sign (`%`) represents **any number of characters**.
- The underscore (`_`) represents **exactly one character** in the indicated position.

- Example:
  - customers whose First Names start with the letter “S”: `WHERE FirstName LIKE "S%"`
