# Agile - wk02

[Back](../agile.md)

- [Agile - wk02](#agile---wk02)
  - [Agile Pre planning](#agile-pre-planning)
  - [The Agile Charter](#the-agile-charter)
  - [Stakeholders](#stakeholders)
    - [Customer](#customer)
    - [User](#user)
    - [Sponsor](#sponsor)
  - [Implementing Agile](#implementing-agile)
    - [Plan-Driven (Waterfall)](#plan-driven-waterfall)
    - [Scrum](#scrum)
    - [WaterScrum](#waterscrum)
  - [Agile Manifesto](#agile-manifesto)
    - [4 values](#4-values)
    - [12 Principles](#12-principles)

---

## Agile Pre planning

- `“Sprint Zero”`

  - **Not** an official part of Scrum
  - In the **practical** world when a team sets out to adopt the scrum framework it takes this time for the **pre-planning phase**

- Collecting and prioritizing business and technical **requirements**
- **Team formation**
- High-level time and cost **estimation**
- **Infrastructure** set-up
- Building the **testing** environment
- Develop the **Definition of Done**

---

## The Agile Charter

- Describes 
  - what the project will **achieve**
  - Why (**Vision**)
  - Who will **benefit**
  - How they will know it is **completed**
  - How the team will **work**

- Not every team or project will need one

---

## Stakeholders

- A `stakeholder` is "a person **external** to the Scrum Team with a specific interest in and knowledge of a product that is required for **incremental** discovery. **Represented** by the `Product Owner` and actively engaged with the `Scrum Team` at `Sprint Review`."

- **Defines the feature set**
  - Provides specific **feedback** at each iteration
  - Willingness to spend time with the team
  - Sprint **Reviews**
  - User Story writing workshops
  - Willingness to receive value iteratively

---

### Customer

- An individual or the organization that **acquires** the project’s **products and services**.
- For any organization, depending on the project, there can be both **internal customers** (i.e., within the same organization) or **external customers** (i.e., outside of the organization).

---

### User

- An individual or the organization that **directly uses** the project’s products and services. Like customers, for any organization, there can be both internal and **external users**. Depending on the project, customers and users may be the same.

---

### Sponsor

- An individual or the organization that **provides resources and support** for the project. The sponsor is also the stakeholder to whom everyone is accountable in the end.

---

## Implementing Agile

Explain the value of The Agile Manifesto
Describe the 12 Principles of Agile
Understand: Agile benefits, issues introducing Agile, and resistance

---

### Plan-Driven (Waterfall)

- **Well defined scope**
- **Little change** to scope and requirements (in fact this is discouraged)
- Low risk
- Sequential
- Process heavy
- Plan, plan, plan, baseline and build

---

### Scrum

- **Uncertain scope** and requirements
- Able to **adapt** (just in time adaption)
- For **high risk** project
- Highly **collaborative**
- Create a **unique** product (that has never been done before)
- Start building something

---

### WaterScrum

Some combination of Waterfall and Scrum

Not very successful

---

## Agile Manifesto

- The `Agile Manifesto` is a brief document built on 4 **values** and 12 **principles**.

- The Agile Manifesto was published in February 2001 and is the work of 17 software development practitioners who observed the increasing need for an alternative to documentation-driven and heavyweight software development processes.

---

- The `Agile Manifesto` does **not outline any specific** processes, procedures, or best practices for agile. And that is intentional.
  - The creators did not set out to develop a rigid framework or methodology. Instead, they created a philosophical mindset for software development.

---

### 4 values

- **Individuals** and **Interactions** over Processes and **Tools**

- Working **Software** over Comprehensive **Documentation**

- **Responding to Change** over Following a **Plan**

- Customer **Collaboration** over Contract **Negotiation**

---

### 12 Principles

1. Our **highest priority** is to **satisfy the customer** through **early and continuous delivery** of valuable software.
2. Welcome **changing requirements**, even late in development.

- Agile processes harness change for the customer’ competitive advantage.

3. **Deliver** working software **frequently**, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.
4. **Business** people and **developers** must **work together** daily throughout the project.
5. Build projects around **motivated individuals**. Give them the environment and **support** they need, and **trust** them to get the job done.
6. The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is **face-to-face conversation.**
7. **Working software** is the primary **measure of progress**.
8. Agile processes promote **sustainable development**. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to **maintain a constant pace** indefinitely.
9. **Continuous attention** to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.
10. **Simplicity**–the art of maximizing the amount of work not done–is essential.
11. The **best architectures**, requirements, and designs **emerge from self-organizing teams**.
12. At **regular intervals**, the team **reflects on how** to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.
