# Interface - Wk12

[Back](../interface.md)

- [Interface - Wk12](#interface---wk12)
  - [APIs](#apis)
    - [Distributed Computing](#distributed-computing)
    - [Service](#service)
    - [APIs](#apis-1)
    - [API integration](#api-integration)
    - [API Integration Platform](#api-integration-platform)
    - [Types of APIs](#types-of-apis)
      - [Open APIs](#open-apis)
      - [Partner APIs](#partner-apis)
      - [Internal APIs](#internal-apis)
      - [Composite APIs](#composite-apis)
    - [API Architectures](#api-architectures)
      - [REST](#rest)
      - [SOAP](#soap)
      - [RPC](#rpc)
    - [A guide to choosing the right type of API](#a-guide-to-choosing-the-right-type-of-api)

---

## APIs

### Distributed Computing

- `distributed system` / `distributed computing`
  - a system with **multiple components** located on different machines in **different locations** that **communicate** and **coordinate** actions in order to **appear as** a single coherent **system** to the end-user.
- **Networks** help us achieve this but we also need these components/applications to be able to communicate with each and share data.
- It would not be efficient if each component had its own language for communicating therefore we need some standards.
- We are going to look at the most **common** and prevelant.

---

### Service

- `Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA)`

  - a software design **approach** that structures applications as a **collection** of reusable, independent **services** that **communicate with each other** over a network, promoting modularity, flexibility, and reusability.

- `SOA` allows IT to deploy software services, each consisting of a piece of **logic** that resides within an **application**.
  - A service can be loosely defined and has a range of capabilities specific to the intended function of the software service.
- Typical **characteristics** of a service description are:
  - Remains **independent** of other software. In other words, it is commonly **self-contained** or
  - May be a **composite** of other services
  - Is **modeled** to a specific **business process**
  - Responds to another service using **runtime technology** to access a web application.
  - Due to **loose coupling**, a service is able to perform its functions **without any type of changes**.

---

### APIs

- `application programming interface` / `API`
  - - a set of rules and tools that allows different software applications to communicate and interact with each other, enabling them to share data and functionalities
  - the part of a software application that **handles communications** with other separate applications.
- An `API` works by validating and processing requests from external clients for data inside its native application — a client asks for something, the API **retrieves** it from the other serving application, then the API **sends it back** to the client.
- So, an `API` serves as a **programming interface for developers**.
- APIs usually follow **standardized protocols**.
  - For example, when building software that integrates with the social media platform Twitter, developers can use the RESTful Twitter API to retrieve information about a specific tweet (like its contents, likes, retweets, and post timestamp) or to post tweets. In both cases, Twitter’s API sits between developers and Twitter’s back-end and gives developers limited access to its internal information.

---

### API integration

- `API integration`

  - the **process of connecting** two or more applications or systems using their `Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)` to **enable data exchange** and functionality **sharing**.

- An `API integration` is the **incorporation** of one or more complex API technologies into the **tech stack** that enhances the customer-facing service and/or the efficiency of your internal workflows.
- Every **integration** should start with **discussions** and **planning** over how it will serve the business.
- For each of the business needs, **research** different API offerings by **cost**, **capability**, and **ease** of integration.
- Also, formulate a plan for what **data** you’ll pull from each API and where that data will be **stored** in your systems.
- Next, determine how to make the integration work.
  - One option is a **customized approach**, one built from the ground up by an API developer. This solution gives you the most control over the **data flow** between systems, but, as you might guess, it’s the costliest.
- Instead, many companies today use what’s called an **API integration platform**.

---

### API Integration Platform

- An `API integration platform`
  - a **software application** that **helps form** API **integrations**.
  - a software **solution** that **facilitates** the connection and interaction between different applications, systems, or services by utilizing APIs
- These platforms serve as **centralized hubs** for all the APIs you want to access, and they include tools that make building out the integrations a lot easier.
- Popular `API integration platforms` include MuleSoft, IBM API Connect, Microsoft Azure, and Tray.
- These platforms allow the modification of integrations when necessary, swap out old APIs with new ones, and automate entire processes.
- Their **graphical user interfaces** flatten the learning curve and make them handy for non-developers.
- An API integration platform also lets you **make multiple calls** to various **integrated APIs** from the same place.
  - If you use several APIs for different things, an integration platform brings all your data together.

---

### Types of APIs

- **Not** every software integration is the **same**
  - therefore, **not** all APIs are the **same**.
- There are different categories of APIs based on different protocols, functions, and access levels.
  - For example, an API that shares data with the public will probably have a different build than one that’s meant only for internal use by your employees.
- When referencing APIs, we’re usually talking about a **subcategory** of APIs called `web APIs`.
- `Web APIs`
  - APIs that are accessed using the `Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)`, the same protocol used for fetching and displaying web pages in browsers.
  - using **HTTP-based protocols**
- We can divide Web APIs into groups by intended level of **access** and **scope** of use.
- There are four widely agreed-upon types of web APIs:
  - Open APIs
  - Partner APIs
  - Internal APIs
  - Composite APIs

---

#### Open APIs

- `Open APIs` / `public APIs` / `external APIs`
  - are available to use by **any developer**.
- As a result, open APIs typically have relatively **low authentication and authorization** measures, and are often **restricted in the assets** they share.
- While some open APIs are **free**, others require a **subscription** fee to use, which is often tiered based on the number of calls made to the API.

- There are several **advantages** to making APIs public, the biggest being the ability to **share data openly**.
  - This **encourages any external business or developer** to integrate with the app that owns the API, making both the **third-party software** and the API more **valuable**. Because of the lack of restrictions and easy implementation allowed by the open API, **third parties** can quickly leverage the data it provides.

---

#### Partner APIs

- `Partner APIs`
  - **shared externally**, but only among those who have a **business relationship** with the company providing the API.
- **Access is limited** to authorized clients with official licenses, and thus **security measures** tend to be stronger with partner APIs than with public APIs.

- Some businesses favor partner APIs because they want
  - **greater control** over who can access their **resources** and
  - **more say** in how those resources are **used**.
- For example, Pinterest adopted a submission-based approach to providing access to new data services via its API, requiring partners to submit a request detailing how they would like to use the API before being granted access.

---

#### Internal APIs

- `Internal APIs` / `private APIs`
  - **not** intended for use by **third parties**.
- `Internal APIs` are only made available for use **inside a company** and are meant to streamline data transfers between teams and systems.
- Developers working for the company can use these APIs, but external developers can’t.
- Because internal APIs **aren't documented in a publicly** released software development kit (or at all in some cases), they are often completely **hidden** from the public.
  - However, many companies do eventually go public with their internal APIs.
- Using APIs for internal data transfers is regarded as more **efficient**, **secure**, and **traceable**.
- It’s also a **scalable solution** — when a business introduces a new internal system, this system can communicate with existing systems via their APIs.

---

#### Composite APIs

- `Composite APIs`
  - **combine multiple APIs** allowing developers to bundle calls or requests and receive **one unified response from different servers**.
  - If you need data **from different applications or data sources**, you would use a composite API.
- Because they **reduce the number of total API calls**, composite APIs can result in **less server load** and overall faster systems, as well as **reduced complexity** in the system. They’re commonly deployed in **microservices** in which one job may require data from many internal APIs to complete.

- Take this example from Stoplight: Say you want to create an order within a shopping cart API. You might think that this takes just one request. But, in fact, several requests must be made. First, you need to create a customer profile. Then, you need to create the order, add an item, add another, and change the status of the order.
- Instead of making five separate API calls in succession, you can make just one with a composite API.

---

### API Architectures

- An `API’s architecture` consists of the **rules** that guide **what** information an API can **share** with clients and **how** it **shares** the data.
  - REST
  - SOAP
  - RPC (JSON and XML)
- These are the most popular API architectures in use today

---

#### REST

- `REST`/ `representational state transfer`

  - a **set of guidelines** for scalable, **lightweight**, and easy-to-use APIs.

- `REST API` / `RESTful” API`

  - an **API** that **follows REST guidelines** and is used for transferring data from a **server** to a requesting **client**.

- **Client-Server Separation**:
  - All client-server interactions must be in the form of a **request** from the client, followed by a **response** from the server.
  - Servers can’t request and clients can’t respond.
- **Uniform Interface**:
  - All requests and responses must use `HTTP` as the **communication protocol** and be formatted in a specific way to **ensure compatibility** between any client and any server.
  - Server **responses** are **formatted** in `JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)`.
- **Stateless**:
  - **Each** client-server **interaction** is **independent** of every other interaction.
  - The server **stores no data** from client **requests** and remembers nothing from past interactions.
- **Layered system**:
  - Requests and responses must always be **formatted the same way**, even when passed through intermediate servers between the client and the API.
- **Cacheable**:
  - Server **responses** should indicate whether a provided resource can be **cached** by the client and for how long.

---

#### SOAP

- `SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)`
  - a **protocol for transmitting** data across networks and can be used to build APIs.
  - SOAP is standardized by the `World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)` and **utilizes** `XML` to **encode** information.
- `SOAP` strictly defines how messages should be sent and **what must be included** in them.
  - This makes SOAP APIs **more secure** than REST APIs, although the **rigid guidelines** also make them more **code-heavy** and **harder to implement** in general.
- For this reason, SOAP is often implemented for **internal data transfers** that require **high security**, and the more flexible REST architecture is deployed more commonly everywhere else. But, one more advantage to SOAP is that it **works over any communication protocol** (not just HTTP, as is the case with REST).

---

#### RPC

- The `RPC (Remote Procedural Call)` protocol is the most **straightforward** of the three architectures. 
  - allows a program to **execute a procedure** (or function) on another computer or server

- Unlike `REST` and `SOAP` that facilitate the transfer of data, RPC APIs **invoke processes**. 
  - In other words, they **execute scripts** on a server.
- RPC APIs may employ either `JSON (a JSON-RPC protocol)` or `XML (an XML-RPC protocol)` in their calls. 
  - XML is **more secure** and **more accommodating** than JSON, but these two protocols are otherwise similar. 
- `RPC APIs` are limited in their **security** and **capabilities**, so you likely won’t see them as often as REST or SOAP APIs on the web. 
- However, it can be used for **internal systems** for making basic **process requests**, especially many at once.

---

### A guide to choosing the right type of API

- `Open APIs`, which **any developer** can access.
- `Partner APIs`, which **only authorized developers** may access.
- `Internal APIs`, which **only internal teams** may access.
- `Composite APIs`, which **combine multiple** APIs.

- There are also three common types of API architectures:
  - `REST`, a collection of guidelines for **lightweight**, **scalable** web APIs.
  - `SOAP`, a **stricter protocol** for more **secure** APIs.
  - `RPC`, a protocol for **invoking processes** that can be written with `XML` (XML-RPC) or `JSON` (JSON-RPC).
