# RPA - wk02

[Back](../rpa.md)

- [RPA - wk02](#rpa---wk02)
  - [Process](#process)
  - [Three Types of Business Process](#three-types-of-business-process)
    - [Management Processes](#management-processes)
    - [Operational Processes](#operational-processes)
    - [Supporting Processes](#supporting-processes)
  - [Well Defined Processes](#well-defined-processes)
  - [SIPOC Diagrams](#sipoc-diagrams)
    - [Benefits](#benefits)
  - [Creating a SIPOC Diagram](#creating-a-sipoc-diagram)
    - [1. Choose a Process](#1-choose-a-process)
    - [2. Define the process: P](#2-define-the-process-p)
    - [3. List the outputs: O](#3-list-the-outputs-o)
    - [Identify the customers: C](#identify-the-customers-c)
    - [List the inputs: I](#list-the-inputs-i)
    - [Identify suppliers: S](#identify-suppliers-s)
    - [Share your diagram](#share-your-diagram)
    - [The Process Model](#the-process-model)
      - [PDCA](#pdca)
  - [Business Process Mapping](#business-process-mapping)

---

## Process

- A `process` is a **sequence of activities and tasks** linked to specific **rules** with the aim of making a measurable contribution to **achieving the company's goal**.
- Since a process is part of business, it is often referred to as a **business process**.
- Each process has a **beginning** and an **end**, one or more **triggers**, and leads to a specific **result**.
- Processes can be simple or complex, depending on the number of **steps** they have, and the number of **systems** involved.

---

- Process Definition

  - A process **transforms** an **input** (idea, raw material, information, decisions, etc.) into an **output** (good or service) ...
  - Each element of the process is associated with a **role** which may be **internal** or **external** to the business system

- **Input -> Process -> output**
- S**upplier -> Process -> Customer**

---

- Process:

  - “a **collection of interrelated work tasks** initiated in response to an **event** that achieves a specific **result”**
  - e.g.
    - Cleaning the store
    - Finding an email address
    - Deploying software
    - Customer profiling
    - Onboarding a new employee
    - Planning a wedding

- But why are those processes? Why aren’t they just jobs to be done? When you formalize a process, you think about the workflow with productivity in mind and it makes it easier to execute and optimize.

---

- The first Business Process

- The earliest known definition of a **business process** comes from Scottish economist **Adam Smith**. In 1776 he described a business process in place at a theoretical pin factory, involving 18 separate people to make one pin:
- ”One man draws out the wire, another straightens it, a third cuts it, a fourth points it, a fifth grinds it at the top for receiving the head: to make the head requires two or three distinct operations: to put it on is a particular business, to whiten the pins is another …
- the important business of making a pin is, in this manner, divided into about eighteen distinct operations, which in some manufactories are all performed by distinct hands, though in others the same man will sometime perform two or three of them.”
- Why should we care about how many people it takes make the pins, or how many steps are in the process?
- Well, Smith found that by **creating a process and assigning the steps to individual specialists**, **productivity** increased 24,000%.

---

- Using Processes to improve efficiency

- A `process` is **necessary for the division of labor** because the task isn’t just in one person’s head anymore.
- The full-stack pin engineer might be a fine person to write the process but shouldn’t be running it from start to end alone — the job is 240 times **more efficient** when it’s split up amongst pin **specialists**: the person who cuts pin wires all day is less fallible than the solo pin master craftsman.

---

- 1907, Henry Ford

- The Piquette Avenue Plant in Detroit, Michigan, the **birthplace** of America’s first mass-produced affordable car.
  - Instead of one artisan creating a product alone, everyone was taught to **do one of 84 simple**, **repetitive** jobs. With this new approach to processes, Ford cut the manufacturing time of the Model T down from 12.5 hours to 2.5 hours.

---

## Three Types of Business Process

- Processes are a set of **logical instructions** to be executed from **start to end**
- Three Types of Processes
  - **Management** processes
  - **Operational** processes
  - **Supporting** processes

---

### Management Processes

- `Management processes` aren’t as laser-focused on taking a task from start to finish as they are focused on **planning and projecting the future of company operations.**
  - An example of a management process might be a CEO **planning out** how best to organize the marketing team’s time and energy for a PR launch campaign. The process part would be **allocating resources**, defining **timeframes** and **checking** that the systems are in place and optimized.
- These processes are **important for the growth** of the business. These functions usually include **managing the day-to-day tasks**,

---

### Operational Processes

- `Operational processes` concern your **core business process**.
  - If you’re a t-shirt company, one of your core operational processes is taking orders over the phone.
  - Another would be getting manufactured t-shirts off to be shipped.
- Whatever the business does at its core, there should be watertight processes in place to make the **business scalable and efficient**.
- These functions are **vital** as they might **generate the maximum revenue** for the company.
- Continuously improving these functions is essential for the **consistent growth** of the business.

---

### Supporting Processes

- `Supporting processes` **support** the **management and operational processes**. The company relies on these processes to prop up the planning and doing parts of the business.
- It’s processes like **tech support**, employee onboarding or **hiring** an intern.
- While these aren’t what the company does to make money, they facilitate the main revenue stream and make it so the management processes have something to manage, and that the operational processes are as **friction-free as possible**.
- Many different departments within the business such as **human resource** management, **accounting** department, sales and **marketing** department support the main functions of the business.

---

## Well Defined Processes

- `Processes` are **events or tasks** we want to **repeat** an unknown number of times; we’d like some processes repeated indefinitely.
- If we want our business processes to be **consistent** — to yield **predictable, consistently good results** — we need to **document** them.
- We **document** processes (i.e., write procedures) to **ensure consistency and quality** of the results.
- We also document processes so we can **train** (and retrain) employees.
- No matter who is performing or supervising the process, no matter when or where they’re taking part, **we want quality and consistency**.

---

- To develop “well-defined process”, we use a couple of simple, effective **process modeling tools**: the `SIPOC Diagram` and the `Process Model`.
  - **S – Supplier**
  - **I – Input;**
  - **P – Process;**
  - **O – Output;** and
  - **C – Customer**
- The `SIPOC diagram` is very effective at communicating, breaking down language, and other barriers.
- It helps people **understand** the purpose for the process and, when linked with **similar diagrams** of other processes, explains its relationship to other business activities.

---

## SIPOC Diagrams

- A ``SIPOC diagram` provides a **high-level view of a process** by documenting its **suppliers**, **inputs**, **process**, **outputs**, and **customers**.
- It **visualizes** how everyone in the process **receives** materials or data from each other and is often used to improve or understand processes that **impact** customer experience.
- Workflow diagrams provide a **graphic map** of a business process or project. A `SIPOC diagram` is a type of **workflow diagram** that focuses on **who creates and receives materials** or data **throughout a business process**.

- Some workflow diagrams are organized with each process step mapped out chronologically. However, a `SIPOC diagram` **doesn’t** map out **dependencies** (i.e. tasks that need to be completed before others). Instead, it **visualizes who creates process materials**, **how** those materials **feed** into the process, and **who receives** process outputs.

---

### Benefits

- **Clarify parts of a process**

  - When you create or use a SIPOC diagram, you’re prompted to **identify key information** like supplier contacts, project specifications, and target customers. In that way, the act of creating a SIPOC diagram helps you **understand** processes, then automate them.

- **Explain a business process**

  - Since a SIPOC diagram gives a high-level overview without specific details, it’s useful for audiences who are **unfamiliar with the business process**. In that way, it’s a great way to **introduce** new employees to a process or communicate about those **key process details** that have a direct impact.

- **Communicate**
  - The SIPOC map is a good tool for creating **understanding** and understanding the **scope** of the process
  - The SIPOC gives you a **common language** for talking about what the process does now and how you want it to change

---

## Creating a SIPOC Diagram

- Create a SIPOC diagram **in 7 steps**
  - Using the SIPOC model is simple, but it’s actually a **best practice** **not to follow the acronym 缩写 in order**. You can **start** with the **“process”** section as that’s often the easiest place to begin, but you can also work **backwards** from “customers” to “suppliers.”

---

### 1. Choose a Process

- **Select the process** you want to **visualize** with your SIPOC diagram. This can be a new business process you want to implement or an existing process you want to optimize or automate. Creating a SIPOC diagram can help you understand the process.

---

### 2. Define the process: P

- Instead of completing your SIPOC diagram in order, it’s often easiest to start with the “P” section and define your process first. **Break the process down into 4-5 high-level steps**, each with its own **action** and **subject**.

- If you want, you can organize these steps as a **flow chart**, with each one feeding into the other.
  - If your process is long and contains many different steps, try to **group batches** of smaller steps together. For example, you could use the broader step “Invoice sent to warehouse” to stand in for all the details of how information is transferred from your ecommerce platform to the shipping warehouse.
- Remember that the purpose of a SIPOC diagram is to **provide a high-level overview**, **not a detailed view.**

---

### 3. List the outputs: O

- Identify the **outputs** of the process. This helps you understand **what you get from the resources** you invest in the process, and what customers are actually **receiving**.

- Outputs can be things like **materials**, products, services, or **information**—essentially anything you, internal team members, or customers get out of the process.
- Ideally, outcomes should **correspond with customer requirements**.

---

### Identify the customers: C

- `Customers` are the people who **receive the outputs or benefit** from the process.

- Keep in mind that **customers don’t have to be external**—they can also include co-workers and **internal stakeholders.**

  - Say you're preparing your company's annual retreat. In this scenario, your customers and stakeholders would be the team members attending the event.
  - For a shipping example, you could list the following customers: online shoppers (who receive the invoice or receipt), and your company (which receives money for the product).

---

### List the inputs: I

- **Inputs** are the **resources you need** for the process to function properly. Similar to outputs, these can be things like materials, products, services, or information (data).

- Listing the **suppliers of the inputs** helps you understand **resource requirements** for the process and determine whether you’re getting the data you need from your suppliers.
  - For your product shipping process, this could include customer shipping and payment information, online payment services data, packaging services data, packaging materials data, warehouse data, and delivery data.

---

### Identify suppliers: S

- **Suppliers** are where you get each of the inputs of the process. This step helps you **understand how many suppliers** you’re working with and whether you’re managing them in the most efficient way.
- In our product shipping example, that could include the following:
  - Customers: Provide shipping and payment information
  - Warehouse team members: Offer packaging data
  - Packaging manufacturer: Create packaging information
  - Warehouse leasing company: Provide warehouse location
  - Delivery services: Provide delivery data

---

### Share your diagram

- A SIPOC diagram is meant to be shared.
- It’s most valuable as a tool to help you, your team, and stakeholders understand how a business process works.
- That means to get the full benefit of your SIPOC map, you should **not only share it**, but also make sure it’s **easily accessible**.

---

### The Process Model

- A **one-time event** is **not a process**, just like a one-time repair is not a corrective action. A true process is a cycle.
- This `process model` does an excellent job of illustrating a typical process. A well-defined process should **answer the questions** about the process's methods for **Plan**, **Do**, **Check**, **Act**:

---

#### PDCA

- You `PLAN` the process, **establish process objectives** (what the result should be), state the various **requirements** (customer, regulatory, standards-based, internal, etc.), and **describe how you will get** from point A to point B and back again;
- You `DO`, **performing the process** and **collect process data**; The data element is critical for providing feedback to determine if the process is control.
- You `CHECK` on the process, **reviewing the data** you’ve collected and **analyzing process performance** (not just according to stated objectives, but also for variability, consistency, and trends); and
- You `ACT` on your **review findings**, either **continuing** with the process unchanged or **modifying** the process to make it work better and implementing the process with those revisions.

---

## Business Process Mapping

- You have done this before using `BPMN (Business Process Model and Notation)`
- We will be using this notation to document processes that we need to automate.

- Let’s review.
  - A process map is a lot like your everyday flow chart, but also includes some elements exclusive to business process management.
