# Doc - Wk03

[Back](../../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk03](#doc---wk03)
  - [Hardware](#hardware)
    - [Cloud](#cloud)
    - [IOT - Internet Of Things](#iot---internet-of-things)
    - [Bank Machine](#bank-machine)
    - [Laptop](#laptop)
    - [Network Hardware](#network-hardware)
    - [Hardware Architecture](#hardware-architecture)

---

Define the common hardware components of a system in the context of technology based information systems.
Describe the role of the technical system analyst in researching and documenting hardware based components of technology systems
Describe/capture in detail various types of hardware system configurations and interfacing software for the individual hardware components & where to find them.

## Hardware

- Remembering that an Enterprise like a bank has MULTIPLE applications that service different devices and functions unique to those channels…
- `Hardware`
  - all the **physical components** that are part of a computer system
- Some examples:
  - **Computer Components**
    - CPU, Hard Drive, RAM, and input/output devices
  - **Computers / Devices**
    - Personal Computers, Laptops
    - Servers, Mainframes - whether Physical or in Cloud
    - Tablets, iPads, Smartphones
    - Internet of Things (Cars – eg. Tesla, etc., Planes, Fridges, etc.)
  - **Network hardware**
    - Routers, Switches, Network cables

---

- **Computer Components**

  - This is KEY : Every computer, regardless of whether it is a Smartphone, IOT devices, tablet, laptop, Server, or Mainframe server OR a Cloud service … They **ALL have**:
    - **CPU**,
    - Hard Drive/**storage**,
    - RAM/**Memory**,
    - and **input/output** devices
    - Can be connected thru **Network devices** to the Internet

- Contrast that with the Cloud, which can be private (company owns/no other company can access) thru to public - where the Cloud provider has servers and storage they charge you (or your company) to access via:
  - `IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service)` - Your IT **Administrators configure**
  - `PaaS (Platform as a Service)` – Your IT **Developers code Apps**
  - `SaaS (Software as a Service)` – Users use **Software Apps**

---

### Cloud

- Considerations:
  - **Data control**
  - **$ cost control…**
- In the Case of Cloud, the Cloud provider **charges** you $ per “unit” & supplies you (and your company) **access** to the
  - `IaaS (the Servers & mainframes and huge storage)`
    - Require IT **Administrators** in your company who must configure/monitor
    - Ideal for companies/Organizations that **don’t want to allow even the Cloud provider to be able to see** their O/S, Middleware and Runtime environments.
  - `PaaS (Servers/Mainframes/Storage + Operating Systems and Runtime Environments)`
    - IT Developers in your company must Develop/test/Install Applications & Databases
  - `SaaS`
    - Like MS Office 365 or Google Docs users can use the Software

---

### IOT - Internet Of Things

- `Internet of Things (IoT)`

  - the network of physical objects—“things”—that are **embedded with sensors, software, and other technologies** for the purpose of **connecting and exchanging data** with other devices and systems over the internet.
  - These devices range from ordinary **household objects** to sophisticated **industrial tools**.
  - With more than 10 billion connected IoT devices today, experts are expecting this number to grow to 22 billion by 2025.

- `IoT` has become one of the most important technologies of the 21st century.
  - Now that we can connect everyday objects—kitchen **appliances**, **cars**, thermostats, **baby monitors—to** the internet via embedded devices, seamless communication is possible between people, processes, and things.

---

- **IOT Cars**
- **IOT Fridge**

---

### Bank Machine

- **Bank Machine**
  - Display **Screen** (output device)
  - Modified **keyboard** available to users (Input device)
  - **CPU**
  - **Data storage** device – usually disk or SSD
  - **Network** Connection – To communicate with the Account based Banking systems to update them with Deposit/Withdrawals/Transfers

---

### Laptop

---

### Network Hardware

- Routers, Switches, Network cables, and Wireless Access Points
- `Network cables` / `Ethernet cable`
  - the transmission media to transfer data from one device to another.
  - This type of cable is often called an , and in fact when you review Task Manager Network performance, this is the name of the hard wired/cabled network connection.
- `Ethernet/hard wired connection` / `Ethernet connections`

  - be much faster than Wireless.

- `Hubs`:
  - a node that **broadcasts data** to every computer or Ethernet-based device connected to it.
  - less sophisticated than a `switch`, the latter of which can **isolate** data transmissions to specific devices.
- `Network hubs` are best suited for **small**, **simple** local area network (LAN) environments, but are basically obsolete today.

---

- `Switches`:
  - acts as a **controller**, connecting computers, printers, and servers to a network in a building or campus.
- `Switches` allow devices on your network to **communicate with each other**, and with other networks, creating a network of shared resources.
  - two basic types of switches are:
    - **on-premises**
      - lets you configure and monitor your LAN
      - tighter control of your network traffic & cost certainty.
    - **cloud-managed**
      - **simplify** your network management, with a simple user **interface**, multisite full-stack management, and **automatic** updates delivered directly to the switch.

---

- `Routers`:
  - connect **multiple networks** together.
  - Routers enable all networked computers to **share a single Internet connection**, which saves money.
  - A router **acts a dispatcher**.
    - It **analyzes data** being sent across a network, chooses the **best route** for data to travel, and sends it on its way.
- Depending on your security needs, you can choose a router with a **firewall**, a **virtual private network (VPN)**, or an **Internet Protocol (IP)** communications system.
- Routers can also decide which computers receive **priority** over others.

---

- `Wireless Access Points`:
  - allows devices to **connect to the wireless** network without cables.
  - provides flexible support to **mobile workers**.
- An `access point` acts like an **amplifier** for your network.
  - While a router provides the bandwidth, an access point extends that bandwidth so that the network can support many devices, and those devices can access the network from farther away.
- An `access point` does more than simply extend Wi-Fi.
  - It can also give **useful data** about the devices on the network, provide **proactive security**, and serve many other practical purposes.
- Developing a secure and high functioning network requires a **Network expert** who can match the capabilities of all the components.

---

### Hardware Architecture

- KEY Question : If cloud architected systems are so much cheaper / easier to expand/use, why do many organizations still insist on building and managing their own Infrastructure (servers & networks)??
  - Are there any specific risks to using Cloud Infrastructure?
    - How does your company data get to the Cloud and back to your company workstations? Does the data travel on the Internet? Are there any other options besides using the public Internet?
  - Who is responsible for mitigating any Cloud based risks if they occur? As a business using Cloud infrastructure, if there are many hundreds or thousands of similar businesses trying to get a Cloud service provider to address a service issue …who gets service first? It is likely to be based on the $ size of business

---

- KEY Question Answer: In fact many organizations still insist on building and managing their own Infrastructure (servers & networks) because they are mission critical (ie. Customers would stop trusting their Bank, Insurance company, Airline, Government, etc. if they suddenly lost access to their $ or information for even hours at a time… ).
  - These heavily information intensive organizations utilize :
    - Leased or dedicated fibre optic Network cables between their main business offices
    - Disaster recovery mirroring of data onto an offsite backup site, again using leased or dedicated fibre optic network cabling.
    - Organizations like this will often create private cloud computing environments by utilizing large servers/mainframe servers , which they can deploy by throttling different business prioritized transaction traffic depending on business risk.
      - These approaches mitigate the cloud risks!
