# Doc - Wk05

[Back](../../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk05](#doc---wk05)
  - [Database Software and Structure](#database-software-and-structure)
    - [Common Terms](#common-terms)
      - [Table](#table)
      - [Primary Keys](#primary-keys)
      - [Data Types](#data-types)
  - [SQL](#sql)
    - [Structure and Keywords](#structure-and-keywords)
    - [Clauses and Format](#clauses-and-format)
    - [WHERE Clause](#where-clause)
  - [Relationships](#relationships)
    - [Multiplicity](#multiplicity)
      - [One to Many](#one-to-many)
      - [Many to Many](#many-to-many)
      - [One to One](#one-to-one)
  - [Normalization](#normalization)

---

Define and describe databases and DBMS in the context of technology based information systems.
Identify and describe database design, structure and common elements.
Describe the role of the technical system analyst in researching and documenting database software and structure.
Research database structure and design utilizing various methods (graphical interface based tools and SQL)

## Database Software and Structure

- `Data`
  - the **actual information** in the system.
- `Databases` allow us to **store, retrieve and filter** this data in an organized, accessible way using software called Database Management System’s (DBMS)

- Data can be one of two types:

  - **Unstructured** Data
    - **Doesn’t** have a **predefined** data model or **schema**.
    - Comes in a **variety of formats**, it can be everything from video, audio and imagery to email data.
  - **Structured** Data (Relational Databases)
    - A structured database has a **predefined** data model or **schema**.
    - **Recognizes relationships** between stored pieces of data

- Relational Databases
  - Oracle
  - IBM
  - Microsoft SQL Server
  - Microsoft Access
  - Sybase
  - Ingres
  - MySQL
  - Postgres

---

### Common Terms

#### Table

- A structured (aka Relational) database **stores information** in `tables`.

- Each `table` should relate to **single subject** (ie. customer information) and will contain one or many pieces of information related to that subject called `attributes`. `Attributes` can also be referred to as `columns` or `fields`.

- each `attribute` will contain **only one type of data** (ie. in a Customer table, the “City” attribute will contain “text” data only )

- For example:

  - A Customer Table would contain many attributes:
    - Customer Name
    - Address
    - City
    - Province
    - Etc.

- Elements of every table

  - **Columns** (also referred to as `Attributes` or `Fields`)
  - **Rows** (also referred to as `Records`)
    - **One complete set of information** (attributes) pertaining to the subject.
    - For example, a student table would have one row of information for each student in a class.
    - If I have 50 students in my class list, I will have 50 rows, or records, in my student table.

- Remember that **a table contains only one subject**, for example:
  - Customer Information
  - Airline Reservation
  - Sales Order Information

---

#### Primary Keys

- Rules For Primary Keys
  - `Primary Key(s)` are **attributes (columns)** that act as an `Unique Identifier` for each row (instance)
  - Every table **should** (good database design) **have** a primary key
  - Primary key must be **unique** (cannot have the same values repeated on multiple rows) and **not null** (“blank” values not permitted)
  - Primary key **can** be comprised of **more than one attribute**
    - These are known as “`composite keys`”
- An Example of a Primary Key
  - Let’s say we have a Student table, we would include an attribute (field) called **“StudentID”** that would contain an **unique** ID # for each student.
  - This ensures if we have 2 students with the same name it wouldn’t cause issues for our database as we will still be able to **distinguish** between them by their Student #

---

#### Data Types

- `attributes` must have a` data type` associated with them so the **database knows what type of data it is storing**.

  - **String** (ie. alphanumeric, any combination of letters, numbers and special characters), **numeric** and **date/time** are some common data types.
  - However, exact naming of these data types may vary slightly depending on which database (ie. mySQL, SQL Server, Oracle etc.) you are using.

- For example, a person’s name would be a string value, therefore:
  - In Microsoft Access: Text data type – “Long Text”.
  - In mySQL: String data type - “VARCHAR”

---

## SQL

- `SQL` stands for `Structured Query Language`
  - SQL allows you to **access** a database
  - SQL is an **ANSI standard** computer language
  - SQL can be used with **multiple** relational databases
    - SQL Server, Oracle, mySQL, Microsoft Access, etc.
  - SQL is **easy** to learn
  - SQL can **execute queries** against a database
  - SQL can **retrieve data** FROM a database
  - SQL can **insert** new records in a database
  - SQL can **delete** records FROM a database
  - SQL can **update** records in a database

---

### Structure and Keywords

- There are 4 types of SQL statements, `SELECT`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE` and `DELETE`, in this course we will cover “SELECT”.
- The SELECT statement returns data from one or more tables in the database.

- Keywords
- Reserved because they have a special meaning in the language
  - (SELECT, FROM, WHERE, ORDER BY)
- Using a keyword outside its context will cause an error

---

### Clauses and Format

- **Clauses**

  - A **fragment** of a SQL statement that is introduced by a keyword
    - (SELECT, FROM, WHERE, ORDER BY)
  - Can be **required** or **optional**
  - Must be provided **in a particular order**
    - Ie. if “WHERE” clause is before “ORDER BY”
  - A SQL statement has **one or more clauses**

- Format of a SELECT statement:

```sql
SELECT columns
FROM tables
WHERE search condition(s)
ORDER BY sort condition(s)
```

---

- `SELECT Statement`:
  - SELECT clause
  - Indicates the attribute(s) (column(s)) to be **displayed**.
- `FROM clause`
  - Indicates the **table**(s) FROM which data is to be **retrieved**.
- `WHERE clause (optional)`
  - **Restricts the rows** returned by the query.
  - Use **single quotes** around **text** strings in the where clause, **no quotes** when using **numeric** data
  - Do **not** use **$** signs in numbers
- `ORDER BY clause (optional)`
  - Identifies which columns are used to **sort** the resulting data.

---

### WHERE Clause

- **Comparisons:**

  - For **text**:
    - Always use **single quotes**
  - For **numbers**
    - =, >, <, <>, >=, etc.
    - No quotes for numeric data

- Examples

```sql
WHERE City = 'London'
WHERE City = 'London' or City = 'Peterborough'
WHERE Age <> 45
WHERE Salary < 50,000
WHERE (City = 'London' and Age < 17) OR Age>90
```

---

## Relationships

- Relationships

  - In a database we will have many **tables** and these tables are **“related” to each other**.
  - The `relationships` defines **how to link data in separate tables together** using `Primary Keys (PK)` & `Foreign Keys (FK)`

- `Foreign Keys`

  - Foreign Keys are used to help **define relationships between tables**
  - Foreign key should be **related to the primary** key in the related table

- Example
  - We may have a Customer table and a Order table.
  - Customer table will have a PK column called CustomerID
  - Order table will have a FK column also called CustomerID that contains the CustomerID the order belongs to

---

### Multiplicity

- We use the name “multiplicity” or “cardinality” to describe the **types** of relationships between tables.
  - One to One
  - One to Many
  - Many to Many

---

#### One to Many

- `One to many`
  - the **most common** relationship that exists in databases
  - Tt means **one record in a table can be associated with one or more records in another table (often Many)**.
- Many is **noted** on the DB diagrams by a `*` for some DBMS,
  - an **Infinity Symbol** for MS Access, MS SQL Server, and a **Crows Foot** for ERD diagrams, etc.
- The **“one” side** is always the **primary key side** of a relationship

- Example: consider a list of items in an Inventory table and InventoryType table. Each item in the Inventory table will have only 1 inventory type (ie an item can’t be both a book and food at the same time! ) but each inventory type could belong to many inventory items.

---

#### Many to Many

- It means **many records** in one table can be **associated** with **many records** in another table.
- Many to many relationships require a **“join” or “junction” table** for best design (some DBMS will not support Many to Many).
- A **junction table** typically contains

  - One **primary key** and two **foreign keys**

- For example, consider relationship between **students and classes.**
  - One student can be attending many classes.
  - At the same time, one class can have many students.

---

#### One to One

- One to one relationships are used to capture data associated with a subset of a table
- Relatively rare - Not Nearly as common as 1 to Many relationships

- What does that mean?
  - For example – An airline would keep a list of all Customers in a database. Some of the Customers but not all are frequent fliers (a subset of the list of Customers)
  - Attributes that only apply to frequent fliers, such as frequent flier membership #, miles flown, etc would be in a separate related table

---

## Normalization

- `Normalization` – in practical terms
  - A set of guidelines for **breaking data into separate tables** in order to **eliminate redundancy** and **reduce potential errors**
- There are several “levels” or normalization, starting with 1st
- At a practical level, most databases never get past 3rd normal form

---

- **1st Normal form**
  - Each table should **have a primary key** (pk)
  - No repeating attribute in a single table (column)
  - **Each attribute** has a **single value** (value in column)

---

- **Second Normal Form (2NF)**:
  - in 1NF
  - every **non-key column** is **fully dependent** on the **primary key** (the unique identifier for each record).
  - For example, if you have a table with customer orders, the customer information should be in a separate table so that you don't repeat it with every order.

---

- **3rd Normal form**

  - Be in 1st and 2nd normal forms
  - No transitive dependencies

- **Transitive Dependencies**
  - This link between tables, WHERE data in one non-key column needs to be changed based on another non-key column is called a `“transitive dependency.`”
- Technically, transitive dependencies violate 3rd normal form.

---

- Small # of **Exceptions** to consider
- Typically we do not normalize the following:
  - **Names** and **address** information
    - The information is typically accessed together, so for performance reasons we prefer all these fields on 1 table
    - i.e. Customer name and address in 1 table
  - Numbers
  - Dates

---
