# Doc - Wk11

[Back](../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk11](#doc---wk11)
  - [Future Trends](#future-trends)
    - [Hardware/Networks](#hardwarenetworks)
    - [Networks](#networks)
    - [Web Apps](#web-apps)
      - [Web Apps](#web-apps-1)
      - [Web Apps – PWA \& AMP](#web-apps--pwa--amp)
      - [Web Apps – Motion UI \& WebAssembly](#web-apps--motion-ui--webassembly)
      - [Web Technologies - MEAN](#web-technologies---mean)
    - [Database Technologies](#database-technologies)
    - [Consumer Privacy](#consumer-privacy)

---

Identify **future** technology **changes** and **trends** in the world of IT.
Describe/show how these changes **impact** a business.

## Future Trends

- **Big Data** Analytics (Data)
- MongoDB, Cassandra, and Azure three of the most popular databases
- **Cloud Computing** (Hardware/Network Infrastructure)
- Internet of Things (Hardware / Software) including Robotics/Drones
- AI and Machine Learning (Software – note: also a big one for web trends)
- Web Apps – how will they change in future / to utilize these future trends..

---

### Hardware/Networks

- You have already learned in this course a little about some of the hardware based future trends, namely **Cloud Computing** (Hardware/Network Infrastructure) & **Internet of Things** (Hardware / Software). Module 2 –Internet connected fridge, and Tesla semi-automated driving car.
- `Cloud computing` is predicted to expand exponentially, especially as 5G internet capabilities are rolled out across the world in the next few years.
- Since these technology's systems rely on the Internet, an individual/company cannot access their applications, server, or data from the cloud during an outage. However, many large enterprises maintain at least two internet providers, using different entry points into their workplaces, and some even use 4G as a third fallback.
- NOTE : As you can see… almost ALL the future technology trends require/rely 100% on consistently **fast Internet speed…** namely fibre based wired networks & 5G …

---

### Networks

- Reflect on any internet speed or access issues you've faced, like losing wireless connection during class or tests, missing important content, or experiencing outages, and consider using a wired Ethernet connection for a more stable learning experience.
- What to look for to increase Internet speed
  - **Fibre based networks** can provide MUCH faster - up to 1 Gbps download speeds … yes that is approaching 1000 Mbps
  - If your Internet Speed test shows speeds below 20 Mbps consider upgrading..https://www.rogers.com/customer/support/article/internet-speedtest and click on the GO button and check your Download and upload speed (note it can fluctuate & if Wired vs Wireless – try it..)
- What country is world leader in highest Broadband??

---

### Web Apps

- **Standards** in web development, like other areas of IT, change quickly so it’s important to be aware of what direction web development is moving in and what to expect in the future.
- Here are some **trends** to be aware of:
  - `Artificial Intelligence (AI)` and `Machine Learning (ML)`
  - `Progressive Web Apps`(combines the features of **web** and **mobile** apps)
  - **Accelerated** Mobile Pages (An open-source framework designed to create **fast-loading**, mobile-optimized web pages with minimal HTML, JavaScript, and caching for improved performance and SEO.)
  - **Web Assembly**(It enables **high-performance** execution of code in web browsers, supporting languages like C, C++, and Rust.)
  - **Motion UI**(**animations** and transitions with them)
  - **MEAN** stack

---

#### Web Apps

- `Artificial Intelligence (AI)` and `Machine Learning (ML)` – like other software, AI and ML can be used within your web application to improve the user experience.
- Some **examples** are listed below:

  - **Chatbots**

    - A chatbot is AI software used to **automate conversations** and **interact with people**.
      - For example, if you were on a store’s website and had a question about a product you might type your question in a chat window. On the other end, instead of having a person answer your question the chatbot would answer the question simulating a sales agent.
    - General Tools like ChatGPT can answer questions to help users consolidate, learn, create (just remember they can make mistakes too.. )

  - **Voice-based Search**

    - Voice activated software and devices are becoming more and more popular. `Alexi` and `Siri` are good example. In the future, we can expect consumers to want to be able to communicate with websites in the same way. For example, asking the website to look up a product instead of having to type the description in.

  - **Personalized Recommendations**
    - AI can allow your website to offer unique **recommendations** for your customers based on their individual preferences.

---

#### Web Apps – PWA & AMP

- `Progressive Web Apps (PWA)` and `Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP)` **combines** the features of **web** and mobile **apps**
- When users are using their phones for visiting websites, online shopping etc., it is important your web app displays properly, has good response time and overall performs well on a mobile device.
- `PWA` (ie Twitter) and `AMP` are two methods of **displaying web pages on a mobile device**.

---

#### Web Apps – Motion UI & WebAssembly

- `Motion UI` (animations and transitions with them)
  - Motion UI is a **library** that allows **animation** of design elements on your web page.
  - It can work with any **Javascript** framework.
- `WebAssembly`
  - WebAssembly **allows developers** to write **web code** in a **variety of languages** and WebAssembly will **compile** the code into a file **browsers can understand**.
  - Since the WebAssembly code is in language native to the browser, it is executed **quicker** than Javascript which is an interpreted language.

---

#### Web Technologies - MEAN

- `MEAN stack`
  - It enables developers to **build fast, scalable, and dynamic web applications** entirely using **JavaScript**, both on the client and server sides.
- Consists of: `MongoDB database`, `ExpressJS`, `AngularJS` and `Node`
- Other options
  `React` – this library will often replace AngularJS as it allows for faster and easier implementation of changes
  `Vue` – is another relatively new compact front-end solution that sometimes replaces AngularJS as well.
  - `Flutter` for Web – because you can produce webs app on any device, this too is becoming a popular option.

---

### Database Technologies

- Since the 1980’s the dominant type of database technology has been relational, but in the last 10 years or so databases using `NoSQL` models have become more widely used.
- `NoSQL` definition : it as **NOT Only relational SQL** but NoSQL databases like `Cassandra`, `MongoDB`, and the **Azure** family of databases allow the storage and efficient retrieval of types of data that don’t follow the set theory based relational models of E.F. Codd (inventor of the Relational Model for databases).
- This type of data is considered to be more **unstructured**, especially early in a systems life.
- Note all data tends to evolve into **consistent structures over time…**

---

- NoSQL databases follow a basic classification based on the type of data stored, namely:

  - Wide Column Store
  - Document Store
  - Key-Value Store
  - Graph Store

- These types of databases are often used by leading **Social Media companies** like Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, etc…
- These types of databases/data structures are changing very quickly, so it is important to keep up on the latest trends … you are encouraged to continue researching/understanding these trends as they evolve:

---

### Consumer Privacy
