# Interface - Wk13

[Back](../interface.md)

- [Interface - Wk13](#interface---wk13)
  - [Designing Web Services](#designing-web-services)
  - [Five Design Rules](#five-design-rules)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
    - [Stability and Consistency](#stability-and-consistency)
    - [Flexibility](#flexibility)
    - [Security](#security)
    - [Ease of Adoption](#ease-of-adoption)

---

## Designing Web Services

- solutions
  - End User, not tech: interface
- API
  - need to **shift** your **perspective** from that of the API designer to that of the **API user**. 
  - focus on making those tasks as easy as possible for your API’s users.  

---

## Five Design Rules

1. Documentation
2. Stability and Consistency
3. Flexibility
4. Security
5. Ease of adoption

---

### Documentation

- Doc:
  - the **first thing** users will see
    - Present well, and people are **more likely** to use your API
  - The relatively easy part is documenting the **API methods** themselves
    - example **requests** and **responses**, + **descriptions**
    - software **tools** that facilitate and simplify the task of generating documentation. (XMLSpy for example)
  - great documentation
    - inclusion of usage examples and tutorials: helps the user understand

---

### Stability and Consistency

- **Keeping old versions running** and supported for quite a long period of time. Maybe even years is a generally **good practice**.
  - e.g.,
    - If you’ve ever used Facebook’s API, (Like Angular) you know how often they **deprecate** and **completely rewrite** their APIs.
    - Theirs is **not a developer-friendly perspective**. 
    - The reason they are still successful is because they have a billion users, not because their API is great.

- In addition to being stable over time, APIs need to be **internally consistent.** 
  - Instead, **keep naming conventions and data handling consistently** throughout your API.
    - I’ve seen many APIs that **change parameter names or methods** of POSTing data, depending on the endpoint that is being used. 
- Finally, you need to **record and publish a changelog** to **show differences between versions** of your API so that users know exactly how to upgrade.

---

### Flexibility

- `Garbage in, garbage out (GIGO)`
  - a well known mantra. 
  - As applied to web API design, this **guiding principle** tends to dictate a fairly rigid approach to request **validation**. 

- Yet as with everything, there needs to be some balance. As it is **not possible to anticipate every way** that users will want to employ your service, and since not every client platform is consistent (i.e., not every platform has very good JSON support, etc.), it’s good to have at least **some degree of flexibility or tolerance** with regard to your **input** and **output constraints**.  (Leaky versus specific)

- Example is allowing for different ways of inputting variables, allow for a variety of input formats as well (e.g., plain POST variables, JSON, XML, etc.). You should at least be supporting **standard POST variables**, and many modern applications support **JSON** as well.
- The point here is that you **shouldn’t assume** that everyone shares your **technical preferences**. With a little research into how other APIs work, you can glean other valuable alternatives that are useful and include them in your API.

---

### Security

- `Security` is obviously one of the most important things to build into your web service. 
- As the API provider, you should be offering usable examples of how to **authenticate** and **authorize** when accessing your API. This should not be a difficult issue that programmer  spends hours working on. 
- Make it your goal that they either don’t have to write any code, or it takes them less than 5 minutes to write it.
- Make sure you consider **security issues from a hacker perspective**, such things as whitelisting, **Cross site Request Forgery** etc.

---

### Ease of Adoption

- This is really the most important rule and builds on all the others. 
- Make sure that they can get up and running with at least a basic implementation of your API, even if it’s just following a tutorial, within a few minutes.
- Make sure people can actually **use** your API and that it **works** the first time, every time.
- Keep it **simple**
- Provide **language-specific libraries** to interface with your service.
- Provide **excellent support**.
