# Interface - Wk04

[Back](../../interface.md)

- [Interface - Wk04](#interface---wk04)
  - [HCI Designing Interfaces](#hci-designing-interfaces)
  - [Heuristic Evaluation(启发式评估)](#heuristic-evaluation启发式评估)
    - [Visibility of system status](#visibility-of-system-status)
    - [Match between system and real world](#match-between-system-and-real-world)
    - [User control and freedom](#user-control-and-freedom)
    - [Consistency and standards](#consistency-and-standards)
    - [Error prevention](#error-prevention)
    - [Recognition rather than Recall](#recognition-rather-than-recall)
    - [Flexibility and efficiency of use](#flexibility-and-efficiency-of-use)
    - [Aesthetic and minimalist design](#aesthetic-and-minimalist-design)
    - [Help, diagnosis and recovery from errors](#help-diagnosis-and-recovery-from-errors)
    - [Documentation and Help](#documentation-and-help)
  - [Shneiderman’s Eight Golden Rules](#shneidermans-eight-golden-rules)
    - [Strive for consistency](#strive-for-consistency)
    - [Seek universal usability](#seek-universal-usability)
    - [Offer informative feedback](#offer-informative-feedback)
    - [Design dialogs to yield closure](#design-dialogs-to-yield-closure)
    - [Prevent Errors](#prevent-errors)
    - [Permit easy reversal of actions](#permit-easy-reversal-of-actions)
    - [Keep users in control](#keep-users-in-control)
    - [Reduce short-term memory load](#reduce-short-term-memory-load)
  - [Norman’s Seven Principles](#normans-seven-principles)
    - [Discoverablility](#discoverablility)
    - [Feedback](#feedback)
    - [Conceptual model](#conceptual-model)
    - [Affordance(可供性)](#affordance可供性)
    - [Signifiers](#signifiers)
    - [Mapping](#mapping)
    - [Constraints](#constraints)
  - [UI Design Principles](#ui-design-principles)

---

## HCI Designing Interfaces

Using HCI to improve interface design

- **common guides and rules** that will help us **evaluate** interfaces and design better ones.
  - Nielsen's Ten Heuristic Principles
  - Shneiderman’s Eight Golden Rules
  - Norman’s Seven Principles
- There is **overlap** in the guidelines but familiarity with all three of these will ensure in good interface design.

---

## Heuristic Evaluation(启发式评估)

- `Heuristics evaluation`
  - a methodical procedure to **check** user interface for **usability** problems.
- Once a **usability** problem is detected in design, they are attended as an integral part of constant design processes. (Iterative process)
  - Visibility of system status.
  - Match between system and real world.
  - User control and freedom.
  - Consistency and standards.
  - Error prevention.
  - Recognition rather than Recall.
  - Flexibility and efficiency of use.
  - Aesthetic and minimalist design.
  - Help, diagnosis and recovery from errors.
  - Documentation and Help

---

- Chat:
- `Heuristics evaluation`
  - an evaluation done by one or more experts using a set of guidelines, and evaluating whether a solution meets those guidelines, how well it meets the guidelines, where it is deficient.

---

### Visibility of system status

- The design should always **keep users informed** about what is going on, through appropriate **feedback** within a reasonable amount of time.
- Communicate clearly to users what the **system’s state** is — no action with consequences to users should be taken without informing them.
- Present **feedback** to the user as **quickly** as possible (ideally, immediately).
- Build **trust** through open and continuous **communication**.

---

### Match between system and real world

- The design should speak the **users' language**.
  - Use words, phrases, and concepts **familiar to the user**, rather than internal jargon.
  - Follow real-world conventions, making information appear in a natural and logical order.
- The way you should design depends very much on your **specific users**.
  - Terms, concepts, icons, and images that seem perfectly clear to you and your colleagues may be unfamiliar or confusing to your users.
- When a design’s controls **follow** real-world conventions and correspond to desired outcomes (called natural mapping), it’s **easier for users to learn and remember** how the interface works. This helps to build an experience that **feels intuitive**.

---

### User control and freedom

- Users often perform actions by mistake.
  - They need a clearly marked "**emergency exit**" to leave the unwanted action without having to go through an extended process.
- When it's easy for people to back out of a process or **undo** an action, it fosters a sense of freedom and confidence.
  - Exits allow users to **remain in control** of the system and avoid getting stuck and feeling frustrated.
- Support Undo and Redo.
- Show a clear way to exit the current interaction, like a Cancel button.
- Make sure the exit is clearly labeled and discoverable.

---

### Consistency and standards

- Users should not have to wonder whether different words, situations, or actions mean the same thing.
  - **Follow** platform and industry **conventions**.
- Users’ experiences with those other products set their expectations.
  - **Failing** to maintain consistency may **increase** the users'**cognitive load** by forcing them to learn something new.
- Maintain consistency within a **single product** or a **family** of products (internal consistency).
- Follow established industry conventions (external consistency).

---

### Error prevention

- Good **error messages** are important, but the best designs carefully prevent problems from occurring in the first place.
- Either eliminate error-prone conditions, or check for them and present users with a confirmation option before they commit to the action.
- There are two **types** of errors: **slips** and **mistakes**.
  - `Slips` are **unconscious errors** caused by inattention.
  - `Mistakes` are **conscious errors** based on a mismatch between the user’s mental model and the design.

---

### Recognition rather than Recall

- **Minimize** the user's **memory load** by making elements, actions, and options **visible**.
- The user should not have to remember information from one part of the interface to another.
  - Information required to use the design (e.g. field labels or menu items) should be **visible** or easily **retrievable** when needed.
- Humans have limited short-term memories.
  - Interfaces that **promote recognition** **reduce** the amount of cognitive effort required from users.
- Let people recognize information in the interface, rather than having to remember (“recall”) it.

---

### Flexibility and efficiency of use

- Shortcuts
  - hidden from novice users
  - may **speed up the interaction** for the expert user such that the design can cater to both inexperienced and experienced users.
- Allow users to tailor frequent actions.
- Provide **accelerators** like keyboard shortcuts and touch gestures.
- Provide **personalization** by tailoring content and functionality for individual users.
- Allow for **customization**, so users can make selections about how they want the product to work.

---

### Aesthetic and minimalist design

- Interfaces should **not contain** information which is **irrelevant** or rarely needed.
- Every extra unit of information in an interface competes with the relevant units of information and diminishes their relative visibility.
  - This heuristic doesn't mean you have to use a flat design — it's about making sure you're keeping the content and visual design **focused on the essentials**.
- Ensure that the visual elements of the interface support the user's primary goals.
- Don't let **unnecessary** elements **distract** users from the information they really need.

---

### Help, diagnosis and recovery from errors

- **Error** messages should be expressed in **plain language** (no error codes), precisely indicate the problem, and constructively suggest a solution.
- These error messages should also be presented with **visual treatments** that will help users notice and recognize them.
- Use **traditional error message visuals**, like bold, red text.
- Tell users what went wrong in **language** they will understand — avoid technical jargon.
- Offer users a **solution**, like a shortcut that can solve the error immediately.

---

### Documentation and Help

- It’s best if the system doesn’t need any additional explanation.
  - However, it may be necessary to **provide documentation to help users understand** how to complete their tasks.
- Help and documentation content should be **easy to search and focused** on the user's **task**.
- Keep it **concise**, and list concrete steps that need to be carried out.
- Ensure that the help documentation is easy to search.

---

## Shneiderman’s Eight Golden Rules

- Shneiderman’s Eight Golden Rules

  - Strive for Consistency.
  - Seek Universal Usability.
  - Offer Informative feedback.
  - Design Dialogs to yield closure.
  - Prevent Errors.
  - Permit easy reversal of actions.
  - Support internal locus of control.
  - Reduce short term memory load.

- Using these eight guidelines, it is possible to differentiate a good interface design from a bad one.
- These are beneficial in experimental assessment of identifying better interfaces

---

### Strive for consistency

- **Consistent sequences** of actions should be required in **similar situations**
- **Identical terminology** should be used in prompts, menus, and help screens
- Consistent color, layout, capitalization, fonts, and so on, should be employed throughout.
- **Exceptions**, such as required confirmation of the delete command or no echoing of passwords, should be comprehensible and limited in number

---

### Seek universal usability

- Recognize the needs of **diverse users** and design for plasticity, facilitating transformation of content.
- Novice to expert differences, age ranges, disabilities, international **variations**, and technological **diversity** each enrich the spectrum of requirements that guides design.
- Adding **features for novices**, such as explanations, and **features for experts**, such as shortcuts and faster pacing, enriches the interface design and improves perceived quality.
- Plasticity(可塑性)
  - the quality of being easily shaped or molded.

---

### Offer informative feedback

- For every user **action**, there should be an interface **feedback**.
- For frequent and minor actions, the response can be **modest**, whereas for infrequent and major actions, the response should be more **substantial**.
- **Visual presentation** of the objects of interest provides a convenient environment for showing changes explicitly

---

### Design dialogs to yield closure

- **Sequences of actions** should be organized into **groups** with a **beginning, middle, and end.**
- **Informative feedback** at the **completion** of a group of actions gives users the satisfaction of accomplishment, a sense of relief, a signal to drop contingency plans from their minds, and an indicator to prepare for the next group of actions.
  - For example, e-commerce websites move users from selecting products to the checkout, ending with a clear confirmation page that completes the transaction.

---

### Prevent Errors

- As much as possible, design the interface so that users cannot make serious errors; for example, gray out menu items that are not appropriate and do not allow alphabetic characters in numeric entry fields
- If users make an error, the interface should offer simple, constructive, and specific **instructions for recovery**.
  - For example, users should not have to retype an entire name-address form if they enter an invalid zip code but rather should be guided to repair only the faulty part.
- Erroneous actions should leave the interface state unchanged, or the interface should give instructions about restoring the state.

---

### Permit easy reversal of actions

- As much as possible, **actions** should be **reversible**.
- This feature relieves anxiety, since users know that errors can be undone, and encourages exploration of unfamiliar options.
- The units of reversibility may be a single action, a data-entry task, or a complete group of actions, such as entry of a name-address block

---

### Keep users in control

- Experienced users strongly desire the sense that they are **in charge of the interface** and that the interface responds to their actions.
- They don’t want surprises or changes in familiar behavior, and they are annoyed by tedious data-entry sequences, difficulty in obtaining necessary information, and inability to produce their desired result

---

### Reduce short-term memory load

- Humans’ limited capacity for information processing in short-term memory (the rule of thumb is that people can remember “seven plus or minus two chunks” of information) requires that designers **avoid** interfaces in which users must remember information from one display and then use that information on another display.
- It means that cellphones should not require re-entry of phone numbers, website locations should remain visible, and lengthy forms should be compacted to fit a single display

---

## Norman’s Seven Principles

- To assess the interaction between human and computers, Donald Norman in 1988 proposed seven principles. He proposed the seven stages that can be used to transform difficult tasks.
  - **Discoverability** makes it easier to understand where to perform actions
  - **Feedback** communicates the response to our actions
  - **Conceptual** models are a simple explanation of how something works
  - **Affordance** is the perceived action of an object
  - **Signifiers** tell us exactly where to perform an action
  - **Mapping** is the relationship between the controls and effect they have
  - **Constraints** help restrict the kind of interactions that can take place

---

### Discoverablility

- Whenever we engage with an everyday thing such as a TV remote control, or a product like a website or an application, we figure out where and how to perform various functions.
  - Through **good discoverability**, we can consider the different **options** and choose the one that should work to meet our goal.
  - However, we cannot do this if the actions are not discoverable
- Norman describes good discoverability as:
  - “it is possible to **determine what actions are possible** and the **current state of the device**”.
    - Clear focal **points** (calls to action, images, and headers);
    - visual **hierarchy** (content structured in order of priority);
    - obvious **navigation** systems all constitute good discoverability and understanding within a design.
- When a design **lacks discoverability**, however, we have to work harder to understand how something works.
  - Take a website hamburger menu, for example, while it serves as a convenient place to store multiple items, it actually obscures key offerings and important information.

---

### Feedback

- When we interact with an everyday thing or product, we need something to communicate the result of our action: feedback.
  - **Without** any **immediate response**, we are left wondering if our performed action has had any impact.
- Norman describes feedback as,
  - “some way of letting you know that the system is working on your request”.
  - feedback must be **immediate, informative, planned** (in an unobtrusive manner), and **prioritised**.
- Important information should be **immediate and clear**.
  - For example, when something goes wrong, an error dialogue forces our attention to critical feedback on what has just happened and what to do next.
- **Subtle feedback**, however, can inform us that our action has worked **without interrupting our flow**.
  - For example, when we send a tweet on Twitter, a small confirmation message appears at the bottom of our screen to let us know that our action has been successfully executed.

---

### Conceptual model

- A `conceptual model` is a simple and useful **explanation of how something works**.
  - For example, a website or application onboarding experience demonstrates how to use the product or service.
- Norman explains, “the design **projects all the information needed** to create a good conceptual model of the system, leading to an understanding and a feeling of control”.
  - Other examples of a conceptual model can be found in packaging, instruction manuals, and iconography.
  - Digital interfaces particularly use visual metaphors to help us create an understanding of what can be done; for example, the trash can icon depicts the idea of deleting unwanted files.
- When a conceptual model is **not clear,** however, then it could go **against our mental model** (our expectation of how something should work).
  - For example, there are some USB connectors that can only be inserted one way which can conflict with our expectations of the design being reversible.

---

### Affordance(可供性)

- `Affordance` is the perceived action and actual properties of an **object that help us determine its operation**.
- Norman states, “The term affordance refers to the relationship between a physical object and a person”.
  - For example, a door handle or a pull chain is shaped like what it controls.
  - Now let’s take a chair, for example, its shape affords sitting or standing on. Then there are some chairs that come with casters which afford to push and pull. And, in the extreme case of a fire, we might even perceive the chair’s size and weight as an opportunity to break a window.
- It should be noted that affordance relies on knowledge in the head (what we already understand) and cultural relevance.
  - Without these properties, then the desired action of an object will be harder to perceive. Take flat design, for example, novice users may not immediately understand that certain visual elements can be manipulated.

---

### Signifiers

- A signifier communicates to us **where the action should take place**.
- Norman explains, “The term signifier refers to any mark or sound, any perceivable indicator that communicates appropriate behaviour to a person”.
  - For example, a button label tells us exactly the kind of action the corresponding control does.
  - In the film, Penguins of Madagascar, one of the Arctic critters steps on a big red button without taking any notice of its action. Then, in the midst of flashing alarms, the Penguin exclaims, “They really should put a label on these things”.
- Now a big red button usually affords that it will perform a critical action, such as an emergency exit; however, in the Penguin’s case, there was no clear indication on the true intent of the button.
- While signifiers provide clarity on where to perform an action, they also rely on **cultural understanding**.
  - For instance, when Amazon launched its website in India, users mistook the search icon for a ping pong bat. This proves that signifiers must hold relevant meaning so they can be immediately recognised by the target user.

---

### Mapping

- Mapping is the relationship between controls and the effect they have on the world. For example, the arrow buttons on a claw machine correspond to the movements of the toy grabbing mechanical arm. Norman explains, “when mapping uses spatial correspondence between the layout of the controls and the devices being controlled, it is easy to determine how to use them”.
- Natural mapping enables us to subconsciously change the effects of our world, such as flicking the appropriate light switches. The iOS brightness control centre particularly utilises good mapping; for instance, when you slide the brightness up and down the corresponding bar matches your movement.
- When the mapping of something becomes unnatural, then the design becomes more counterintuitive. A particular mapping problem can be found in common household appliances, such as cooking hobs. When we operate the hobs, we rely on the positioning of the controls. If the mapping is not clear, then we’ll struggle to determine which controls operate each hob.

---

### Constraints

- When a user is burdened with too much content, we often refer to it as ‘information overload’. Long forms, complicated layouts, and heavily written descriptions can increase distraction and cognitive load (working memory).
- Constraints, however, can restrict the kind of interactions that can take place and therefore help reduce the amount of information we process. Norman explains, “physical, logical, semantic, and cultural constraints guide actions and ease interpretation”.
- As described by Norman, there are different forms of constraints including physical, semantic, cultural, and logical; each of which can help focus our attention to an important task and help reduce the chance of human error.
- Physical constraints restrict the possible operations; for example, a mouse cursor cannot be moved outside the screen. Semantic limitations are clues to where actions can be performed; for instance, a socket has meaning to where the plug pins can be inserted. Cultural restrictions are social conventions, such as waiting in a queue to be served. And finally, logical constraints help determine the alternatives; take scrolling, for example, it is how we know to see the rest of the screen.

---

## UI Design Principles

