# Doc - Wk09

[Back](../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk09](#doc---wk09)
  - [Hardware/Software/Data](#hardwaresoftwaredata)
    - [System Software Changes](#system-software-changes)
      - [Appl. System Software Changes](#appl-system-software-changes)
    - [System Changes](#system-changes)

---

Describe/show how system **hardware changes** impact a business.
Describe/show how system **software changes** impact a business.
Describe/show how system **data changes** impact a business.

## Hardware/Software/Data

- When analyzing changes to a system, the changes are usually split into the **hardware**, **software**, and **data** changes, and as you have learned from this course they are almost always related
  - ie. A hardware change also requires a software change, and a data change also requires software changes, etc.
- A reminder what hardware is required for each system in an enterprise:
  - `Hardware` is all the **physical components** that are part of a computer system. -
  - This includes :
    - **Computer** Components (CPU, Hard Drive, RAM, and input/output devices)
    - Computers / **Devices** (Personal Computers, Laptops, Servers, Mainframes - whether Physical or in Cloud, Tablets, iPads, Smartphones, Internet of Things (Cars – eg. Tesla, etc., Planes, Fridges, etc.)
    - **Network** hardware (Routers, Switches, Network cables)

---

### System Software Changes

- `System Software`:

  - Software that **runs**, **manages**, and monitors server/mainframe **hardware** and device hardware.
  - Examples: Operating systems like Windows 10 or z/OS for mainframes.
  - Includes **tools** for managing specific server systems like** MS Task Manager** on laptops or cloud server monitoring software (e.g., SolarWinds, as shown in the provided links).

- Complexity: The system software required for servers is more **complex** and wide-ranging than general-purpose OS software, as it also includes specialized monitoring and management tools for server operations.

- **DBMS**: A **Database Management System (DBMS)** like MS SQL Server 2019 is a form of system software, as it manages and operates databases.

---

#### Appl. System Software Changes

- **System Software Changes**: Anytime system software changes (e.g., **upgrading** from Windows 8.1 to Windows 10)
- **Systems Analysts** must:
  - **Research and document** all potential **impacts** of the changes and Identify how these changes affect all currently running systems.
  - **Testing**: To ensure everything works properly after the change.
- Enterprise software includes **Application System Software** that supports business functions and incorporates **business rules** for inputs and outputs.
- When changes are Systems Analysts must:
  - **Research** and **document** the **impacts** of these changes on all running systems.
  - **Analyze** software, database tables, and **files** for required updates.
  - **Design**, **update** code, and **test** all impacted systems to ensure proper functionality.

---

### System Changes

- For a project that requires changes as indicated in the previous slides, the analysis & project processes (especially if impact is expected to be high/widespread/substantial) required are very similar to building a new system. \
- You will require a
  - **Project Plan** with all the System changes scoped out
  - **Project Scope** & **requirements documents**
  - **Architecture** / **High level design** documents/diagrams
    - Including System Architecture & Database Table Designs
  - **Design documents** - System **Interface changes**, **platform** changes, Individual **programs** changing, etc.
  - **Coding** - Individual programs
  - **Testing**
  - **Implementation**/**Installation**
