# Doc - Wk07

[Back](../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk07](#doc---wk07)
  - [Current System Analysis – Problems?](#current-system-analysis--problems)
    - [Problems – Who Knew?](#problems--who-knew)
      - [**Internal End users**](#internal-end-users)
      - [End-Users as Customers](#end-users-as-customers)
      - [Supervisors/Managers](#supervisorsmanagers)
      - [Analysts/Supervisors/Managers - System Owners](#analystssupervisorsmanagers---system-owners)
      - [**Infrastructure/System support**](#infrastructuresystem-support)
  - [Problems – Abnormal System？](#problems--abnormal-system)
  - [Problems – System Monitoring Tools](#problems--system-monitoring-tools)

---

Describe the places/**processes**/people to go to for **analyzing/reporting** of current system problems
Describe/capture in detail various **types** of system **processes** and **monitoring** software options & how to use them

## Current System Analysis – Problems?

### Problems – Who Knew?

- MULTIPLE **stakeholders** , usually arranged into groups, each of those groups will have their **perspective** of where problems are that should help us to analyze a currently operating system.
- Some common examples of user groups for a banking application are:
  - **Internal end-users**: Bank employees such as bank tellers, cashiers
  - **End-Users as Customers**: customers using online banking to pay bills
  - **Supervisors/Managers**: support end users directly with actual transaction processing, eg. providing authorization over a $$ limit
  - **Analysts/Supervisors/Managers** that Indirectly **support** systems
    - Eg. Product/Business System Owners
  - **Infrastructure/System support** – IT staff from the org. who created & maintain the system (defects/errors, change/enhancements) You!

---

#### **Internal End users**

- The first & **most important** stakeholder group to **analyze information** from

- A: **Internal End users** are those people who **interact most often** (usually all day every day) with the system & with the customers, and **understand best the balance** needed between system **performance** and **customer** expectations.

- **Internal end-users**
  - Bank employees such as bank tellers (now called CSR or Customer Service Reps), including those in physical branches & remotely via telephone banking, Mortgage/Loan officers, Investment Professionals:
- If they have any problems with a system they **usually report** it to the IT Help desk.
- Researching & Analyzing the **details** of the IT **Help Desk** information system will OFTEN help to highlight the magnitude or severity of ANY issues with your system!

  - **Technology Professionals** will usually have **access** to the IT Help desk information system since they will often be the 2nd or 3rd Level Support team **responsible** for the system !
  - So you should be able to see the **incident/problem** - (especially if you are on-call / assigned a specific IT Help Desk item – often called an Incident/Problem ticket.).
  - **Analyse** all the IT Help Desk **data** / look for **patterns** – ie. If multiple end users/branches of your organization are complaining about the same function/feature
  - Consider/look for/watch for related information in other parts of the system (ie. Logs, etc.)

---

#### End-Users as Customers

- The next most important stakeholder group to analyze information from :

- **End-Users as Customers**:

  - they usually are **biased** to ask for best system **performance**, regardless of **costs/feasability**…

- **End-Users as Customers**
  - customers using online banking to pay bills, etc. NOTE: These customers will almost never have direct access to the internal IT Help Desk Incident management support group, so they will often **report** their problem/issue **through** the Internal users – for example the Bank Tellers/etc. in the branch/telephone banking group.
- So in this way these problems will often be reported as problems to the **IT Help desk**.
- Analysing the details of the IT Help Desk information system will OFTEN help to highlight the magnitude or severity of ANY issues with your system!
- Customers will also often **End-Users as Customers** problems through **End-Users as Customers** (eg.banking) and **End-Users as Customers** – It is best to analyze these as well!

---

#### Supervisors/Managers

- The next most important stakeholder group to analyze information from :

- Supervisors/Managers

  - usually are focused on **managing people & processes** vs using the systems doing transactions

- **Supervisors/Managers** – Usually play a mostly **supervisory role** in separate branches of an organization, and support end users directly with actual transaction processing, eg. providing authorization for transactions over a certain $$ limit. Since these supervisors manage the Bank Tellers, Mortgage/Loan officers, & Investment Professionals:

- If they have any problems with a system they usually **report** it to the IT **Help desk**. Note however that often these folks will **not** re-report a **specific** defect/problem their staff have, but will report the **business impact** to their branch profits through their boss & eventually it will reach the business system owners.
- Researching & Analyzing the details of the IT Help Desk information will OFTEN help to highlight the **magnitude/severity** of ANY system issues!

---

#### Analysts/Supervisors/Managers - System Owners

- The next most important stakeholder group to analyze information from :

- usually focused on **longer term plans.**

- **Analysts/Supervisors/Managers** that mostly **Indirectly support** the systems end users.
  - Eg. Product/Business System Owners
  - Usually play a mostly business product system **ownership role**, by deciding on the specific business direction/strategy & Product Business System changes & investments long term.
  - At an org. like a bank there are separate groups of business people responsible for Savings/Chequing account systems, Mortgage/Loan account systems, Mutual Fund systems, etc.
    - These professionals are usually in head office & are often the Best of the end users (eg. The best Bank Tellers/Branch Managers/etc. are promoted into these roles).
- Although they might report a problem with their specific desktop device to IT Help Desk, they usually have a much **richer relationship** with IT.

---

- The **Product Business System Owners** relationship with their IT organization is multi-pronged & involves:
  - **Engaging** with the Information Technology departments to research, plan, design, build & deploy the original product business system! These are often/usually very large & complex projects…
  - **Regularly communicating** about & **reviewing** any current or **ongoing system problem** or issue, with frequency/interaction level determined by the severity/urgency of the issues users are seeing.
  - **Regularly gathering** & reviewing current system enhancement requests alongside profitability measurements (specific to the systems they own) to determine the business system **priorities**. This includes measuring & monitoring the costs of running & maintaining their IT systems, including all the IT hardware, software, and IT people costs.

---

#### **Infrastructure/System support**

- The next most important stakeholder group to analyze information from :
- **Infrastructure/System support** – IT staff from the org. who often **developed** & **maintain** the system (defects/errors, change/ enhancements)
  - ie. – You & your Network/Infrastructure IT support teams
- Again, while you might report a specific problem with your specific desktop device to IT Help Desk, that is NOT a problem with the system you are responsible for, and you also have a much richer (more comprehensive) role to play in the development & ongoing monitoring, maintenance, & operation of your system(s).

---

## Problems – Abnormal System？

- What is abnormal system behavior?
- **Abnormal system behavior**
  - (ie. a problem) is described as **behavior that does not match the agreed upon business rules** for an application system.
- Where / how are these business rules defined?
  - **Normal business rules** are usually defined and documented by both the **product business system owners**, along with the **IT support staff** & the **auditors** & **accountants**.
- Normally the users or business system owner can point you to the appropriate **documentation**.
- So after you have captured all the database **tables** & data **files**, you can search them for instances where they **differ from the business rules** for an application system.

---

- Once you have **analyzed** all the stakeholder **reported problems**, you can use the related **business rules** to also **analyze** the system for specific / related information that will confirm/support the stakeholder reported problem.
  - There is OFTEN related information somewhere else in the system that can help to **diagnose** and **understand** the root causes. So reviewing the
  - **System Logs** for related information
  - **System Databases & Files** for related information
  - **System Programs & Screens** for related information
  - **System Reports** for related information
- An example of this in the ABM wrong denomination being dispensed could **include**:
  - Logs/reports from the ABM machine may be keeping track of each/all bills dispensed vs total $$ amounts which would then also show a difference
  - And/or Savings & Chequing account balancing differences

---

## Problems – System Monitoring Tools

- Note that while researching/searching for corroborating/confirming information in a system, you will often benefit from using system **monitoring tools** similar to taskmanager on your laptop!
  - There should be monitoring tools for every platform/operating system/device type that you can use to analyse & help determine and fix the root cause of the system issue. For example:
- `Crashlytics` – an SDK for collecting/analysing/organizing app **crash reports** (a product of Google owned Firebase platform developed by Google for mobile and web applications)
- `Solarwinds` – a cloud **server monitoring tool**
  Etc. etc. … for every platform/operating system/device type in your enterprise architecture!
