# Edge - pfSense 01

[Back](../index.md)

- [Edge - pfSense 01](#edge---pfsense-01)
  - [Introduction to pfSense Firewall](#introduction-to-pfsense-firewall)
    - [pfSense](#pfsense)
    - [Minimum requirements](#minimum-requirements)
  - [Installing pfSense](#installing-pfsense)
    - [General configuration (WAN)](#general-configuration-wan)
      - [Static IP Configuration](#static-ip-configuration)
      - [DHCP Hostname](#dhcp-hostname)
      - [PPPoE Configuration](#pppoe-configuration)
      - [PPTP Configuration](#pptp-configuration)
      - [Default WAN Rules](#default-wan-rules)
    - [LAN configuration](#lan-configuration)
    - [Admin password](#admin-password)
  - [Configuring the Interfaces](#configuring-the-interfaces)
    - [Interface and VLANs](#interface-and-vlans)
    - [The GUI](#the-gui)
  - [Advanced Settings: Admin Access Tab](#advanced-settings-admin-access-tab)
    - [Admin Access Tab](#admin-access-tab)
    - [Admin Settings](#admin-settings)
    - [SSH Settings](#ssh-settings)
  - [Firewall and NAT](#firewall-and-nat)

---

## Introduction to pfSense Firewall

- Popular Open Source Firewalls

- Pfsense
- OPNsense firewall
- Untangle firewall
- IPFire, IPTables, IPCop
- Smoothwall (also shorewall)
- Endian – great with Linux (similar to CSF)
- ClearOS, VyOS,
- Ufw

### pfSense

- `pfSense`
  - an Open Source firewall
  - based on the FreeBSD Operating system
    - Unix-based OS from UC Berkeley
- `P` stands for **packet**
- `F` stands for **filter**
- Created in 2004, designed to “making sense of the packet filtering”
- Includes many routing features
- Managed entirely by Web UI

---

- Common Deployments
  - As a Perimeter firewall (most common)
  - As a WAN/LAN router
    - often as a **combined** router and firewall in SOHO networks
  - As a Special Purpose Appliance
    - VPN Appliance
    - Sniffer Appliance (ex. for the tcpdump packet analyzer)
    - DHCP server

---

- **Default Interface Names** in pfSense
  - `Interface names` can be changed to whatever you want, but **by default** there are four interface names:
    - `WAN` – as in `wide area network`
    - `LAN` – as in `local area network`
    - `OPT` – as in **optional**
    - `DMZ` – as in `demilitarized zone`

---

### Minimum requirements

- **Minimum requirements** for release 2.4.5 are:

  - CPU 600 MHz or faster
  - RAM **512** MB or more
  - **4** GB or larger disk drive (SSD, HDD, etc)
  - One or more compatible network **interface cards**
  - **Bootable** USB drive or CD/DVD-ROM for initial installation

- The **minimum requirements** are enough if **less than 100 Mbps** of **unencrypted** throughput is required, but if you have higher throughput requirements you should follow these guidelines
- Also need to consider the **network card throughput**
- Memory size is dictated by state tables size.

- **VPN Sizing**

- Primary consideration in hardware sizing for VPN is the potential the **VPN throughput** required (and not “how many simul. connections”)
- **Encrypting and decrypting** network traffic is **CPU intensive**.
- The **maximum throughput of a firewall** depends on the **cipher** used and whether or not that cipher can be **accelerated** by hardware.

---

## Installing pfSense

- **First time login** will **display** the Setup Wizard
- General Information Screen displays

  - Hostname
  - Domain: Can use example.com, .localdomain
  - Primary/Secondary DNS Server
    - Check: Override DNS

- **NTP and Time Zone**
  - Find it by navigating to Services > NTP
  - Time server hostname is a `Network Time Protocol (NTP)` server hostname or IP address.
  - Unless a specific NTP server is required, the **best practice** is to leave the time server hostname set to **default**:
  - `0.pfsense.pool.ntp.org`.

---

### General configuration (WAN)

- **Configure WAN Interface**

  - `WAN` must **match the type** required by the **ISP**
  - Could be **Static**, **DHCP**, **PPPoE**, and **PPTP**.

- Configurations

  - `MAC Address`: change the WAN interface MAC address or “Spoofing”
  - `Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU)`: The MTU field is typically **left blank** and can be changed when necessary.
  - `Maximum Segment Size (MSS)`: This is also typically **left blank**.

#### Static IP Configuration

- Make sure **all** of the `WAN-type interfaces` are **enabled**
- **Static IP Configuration** is used when “Static” is the selected WAN type. Make sure all static IP WAN’s **have a gateway set**!
- The **IP** address, Subnet **Mask**, and Upstream **Gateway** are provided by the **ISP**

#### DHCP Hostname

- `DHCP Hostname` is usually provided by the ISP with a DHCP request.
- You can also add an **alias** IP address and subnet mask

#### PPPoE Configuration

- The PPPoE **Username** and **Password** fields are required, at a minimum.
- The values for the fields below are determined by the **ISP**.

#### PPTP Configuration

---

#### Default WAN Rules

- Two rules exist by default:
  - 1. Block RFC 1918 Private Networks
  - 2. Block Bogon Networks
    - A bogon is an **illegitimate IP address** that is not officially assigned to an entity by an internet registration authority.

---

### LAN configuration

- The **default IP** is `192.168.1.0/24` network
- The LAN IP Address and subnet mask can be changed

---

### Admin password

- **Default password** is **“pfsense”**
- Change the administrative password for the WebGUI.
- The best practice is to use a strong and secure password. (By **default no restrictions** are enforced)

---

## Configuring the Interfaces

### Interface and VLANs

- Additional interfaces are assigned roles by visiting **Interfaces > (assign)**
- There are numerous tabs on that page used for assigning and creating different types of interfaces.
- The most common tabs are Interface assignments and VLANs
- The Interface assignments tab shows a list of all currently assigned interfaces
  - WAN
  - LAN
  - OPTx (for interfaces that are not LAN or WAN. Ex. vpn or wireless)

---

- To change an existing interface assignment to another network port, follow these steps:
  - 1. Navigate to **Interfaces > (assign)**
  - 2. Find the **interface** you want to change in the dropdown list
  - 3. Choose the **new network port** from the drop-down list on the row for that interface
  - 4. Save your changes
- To add a new interface from the list of unused network ports, navigate to **Interfaces > (assign**) and select from the “Available Network Ports” drop-down list

---

- Interfaces are configured using the **Interfaces > WAN** menu
- All interfaces are configured in the same manner and any interface can be configured as any interface type
- Types include: `Static`, `DHCP`, `PPPoE`, etc.
- **IPv6 Configuration** can be set to `Static IPv6`, `DHCP6`, `SLAAC`, `6rd Tunnel`, `6to4 Tunnel`, `Track Interface`, or `None`
  - When `Static IPv6` is selected, set an **IPv6 address**, **prefix length**, and **IPv6 Upstream Gateway**

---

### The GUI

- The GUI interface uses a common set of icons 32
- The GUI has shortcuts available on the top right and vary depending on the page being viewed

---

- **WebConfigurator**

  - wizard that runs after first reload

- Changing the Theme controls the look and feel of the GUI
- **Top Navigation** controls the behavior of the menu bar at the top of each page.
  - Two options include:
    - 1. Scrolls with page
    - 2. Fixed When selected
- **Hostname in Menu**
- **Dashboard Columns**: Limited to 2 columns by default and set to a maximum of 4.

---

- **GUI configuration**
  - Interfaces Sort
  - Associated Panels Show/Hide GUI may contain collapsible panels with settings that are hidden by default.
  - Available Widgets
  - Log Filter
  - Manage Log
  - Monitoring Settings
  - Left Column Labels
  - Dashboard Update Period

---

## Advanced Settings: Admin Access Tab

- The **WebGUI Protocol** may be set to either HTTP or HTTPS. **SSL/TLS Certificates**:
  - A `certificate` must also be chosen from the `SSL Certificate` dropdown list.
  - The **default** is an **automatically-generated self-signed certificate**.
    - (Is there an issue with using self-signed certs?)
  - **Import** externally signed SSL certificates with the **Certificate Manager**
- **To generate a new self-signed certificate** for the GUI, connect using the **console/SSH** and run the following
  command:
  - `pfSsh.php playback generateguicert`

---

### Admin Access Tab

- **TCP Port:** Moving the **WebGUI** to an **alternate port**
- **Max Processes**:
  - This allows **multiple administrators** to view the GUI at once.
  - Set to **2 by default**, the firewall runs two web server worker processes.
- **WebGUI Redirect**:
  - By **default**, for ease of access and compatibility, the firewall runs a **redirect** on port `80` to `443`
- **WebGUI Login Autocomplete**:
  - Allows autocomplete so browsers can **save the login credentials**.
- **WebGUI login messages**:
  - Successful logins result in a message being **printed to the console**.
- **Anti-lockout**:
  - Access to the WebGUI port and SSH port on the LAN interface is **permitted** by **default** regardless of userdefined filter rules, due to the anti-lockout rule.

---

### Admin Settings

- The firewall **blocks private IP address responses** from configured **DNS** servers by **default**
  - this prevents **DNS rebinding attacks**
  - Can be selectively disabled on a per-domain basis
- Browser `HTTP_REFERER` enforcement:
  - The GUI **checks the referring URL** when it is accessed to **prevent a form on another site** from submitting a request to the firewall
- **Alternate Hostnames**:
  - Configure hostnames for **DNS Rebind Checks** and `HTTP_REFERER` Enforcement active.
- **Man-In-The-Middle Attack/Warning**:
  - If a browser attempts to **access the GUI** using an **IP address that is not configured on the firewall**, such as a port forward from another firewall, a message will be printed that indicating that access to the firewall may be compromised due to a Man-In-The-Middle (MITM) attack.

---

### SSH Settings

- Best Practices for SSH
- If the firewall is installed in an environment that requires **leaving SSH access unrestricted by firewall rules**, do the following:

  - 1. Move the SSH service to an **alternate random port**
  - 2. Force **key-based** authentication

- `Secure Shell (SSH)`:
  - The Secure Shell (SSH) server can be enabled which allows remote console access and file management.
  - Able to connect with any standard SSH client, such as the OpenSSH command line ssh client, PuTTY, SecureCRT, or iTerm.
  - **File transfers** to and from the pfSense firewall are also possible by using a `Secure Copy (SCP)` client such as OpenSSH’s command line scp, FileZilla, WinSCP.
- **Enable Secure Shell**:
  - To enable the SSH daemon, check Enable Secure Shell.
- **Authentication Method**:
  - SSH can be configured to **only allow key-based logins** and **not a password**.
  - Key-based logins are a more secure practice
- **SSH Port**:
  - Moving the SSH server to an **alternate port** provides a negligible security improvement

---

## Firewall and NAT

- **IP Do-Not-Fragment compatibility**:
  - A workaround for operating systems that generate fragmented packets.
- **IP Random ID generation**:
  - A stronger ID into IP header of packets passing through and checked as the firewall replaces the IP identification.
- **Firewall Optimization Options**:
  - The optimization mode controls **how the firewall expires state table entries**:
    - `Normal`: The standard optimization algorithm.
    - `High Latency`: Used for high latency links.
    - `Aggressive`: Expires **idle** connections **quicker**.
    - `Conservative`: Tries to **avoid dropping** any legitimate connections.
- **Disable Firewall**:
  - **Disable** all packet **filtering** is set, the pfSense firewall is turned into a **routing-only platform**.
- **Disable Firewall Scrub**:
  - This disables the scrubbing option that may interfere with NFS, and VoIP traffic.
- **Firewall Adaptive Timeouts**:
  - Adaptive Timeouts control state handling when the **state table is nearly full**
  - `Adaptive Timeouts` are **enabled by default** and the default values are **calculated automatically** based on the `Firewall Maximum States value`.
- **Adaptive Start**:

  - Adaptive Start **defaults** to `60%` of Firewall Maximum States.
  - Adaptive End: **Defaults** to `120%` of Firewall Maximum States.

- **Firewall Maximum States**:
  - This value is the **maximum number of connections the firewall can hold** in its state table.
  - The default size is calculated based on **10% of total RAM**.
- **Firewall Maximum Table Entries**:
  - This value defines the **maximum number of entries** that can exist inside of **address table**.
- **Firewall Maximum Fragment Entries**:
  - When scrub is enabled the firewall maintains a table of packet fragments **waiting to be reassembled**.
  - By default the table can hold **5000 fragments**.
- **Static Route Filtering**:
  - This is a static filter bypass.
  - When traffic enters and exists the **same interface** it will **not be checked** by the firewall.
- **Disable Auto-added VPN rules**:
  - Will **not automatically add IPSEC rules** to the **tunnel interface**.
  - This allows **control over the addresses** allowed to connect to a **VPN**.
- **Disable Reply-To**:
  - Ensures traffic leaves the same interface it arrived through
- **Disable Negate rules**:
  - Traffic for directly connected networks and VPN networks typically must still flow properly when using policy routing.
- **Aliases Hostnames Resolve Interval**:
  - This option controls how often hostnames are resolved and updated by the dns daemon.
- **Check Certificate of Alias URLs**:
  - When downloading alias URLs is set, the firewall will require a valid HTTPS certificate for web servers.
