# Edge - pfSense 03

[Back](../index.md)

- [Edge - pfSense 03](#edge---pfsense-03)
  - [Routing](#routing)
    - [Gateways](#gateways)
    - [Static Routes](#static-routes)
    - [Firewall Rule Bypass](#firewall-rule-bypass)
    - [ICMP Redirects](#icmp-redirects)
    - [Routing Public IPs](#routing-public-ips)
    - [Routing Protocol](#routing-protocol)
    - [Troubleshooting Routes](#troubleshooting-routes)
  - [Traffic Shaper](#traffic-shaper)
    - [ALTQ](#altq)
      - [Voice over IP (VoIP)](#voice-over-ip-voip)
      - [Network Gaming](#network-gaming)
      - [Editing Shaper Rules](#editing-shaper-rules)
    - [Uses for Limiters](#uses-for-limiters)
  - [Logging and Monitoring](#logging-and-monitoring)
    - [System Logs](#system-logs)
    - [Global Log Settings](#global-log-settings)
    - [Remote Logging with Syslog](#remote-logging-with-syslog)

---

## Routing

### Gateways

- `Gateways`
  - They are systems through which **other networks can be reached.**
  - The most common is the **default gateway** used to **connect to the Internet.**
- Gateways are used for **static routing** when other networks must be **reached via specific local routers**.
- Must be added to the firewall configuration (usually on same subnet as an interface) and is **NOT created by default**
- WAN interfaces are added on the interface configuration page.
- `Dynamic interfaces` such as **DHCP** receive an **automatic gateway**
  - A dynamic gateway may **not be deleted**

---

- **settings**

  - When adding or editing a gateway, only the **Interface**, the **Name**, and the **Gateway (IP address)** are required.

- Advanced:
  - Controls how a gateway is monitored when `Multi-WAN` is configured.
    - Weight:
      - **Latency** Thresholds
      - Packet **Loss** Thresholds
      - **Probe** Interval
      - **Loss** Interval
      - **Alert** Interval
      - **Time** Period

---

### Static Routes

- `Static routes`
  - are used when hosts or networks are **reachable through a router** other than the **default gateway**.
- Example:

  - host in subnet `192.168.2.0/24` cannot reach the firewall within the subnet `192.168.1.0/24`
  - required to use a router

- **configuration**
  - **Destination Network**, **Gateway**, Disabled, Description

---

### Firewall Rule Bypass

- `Asymmetric routing`
  - is a network communication scenario where packets travel **from a source** to a destination along **one path**, but then take a **different path** when returning **to the source**
- With `asymmetric routing` any stateful firewall will **drop** legitimate traffic

- To **prevent** legitimate traffic from being dropped:
  - Add firewall rules which **allow all traffic** between
    - Check **Bypass firewall rules** for traffic on the **same interface**
  - add the rules **manually** on the `Floating tab`

---

### ICMP Redirects

- `ICMP redirects` are used by routers to **specify better routing paths** out of one network.
- Through ICMP redirects, a host can find out which networks can be accessed from within the local network

- When a device sends a packet to its **default gateway**

  - The `ICMP redirect` causes a route for that destination to be **temporarily added to the routing table** of the sending device, and the device will subsequently use that **more direct route** to reach that destination.
  - By default, **permit** ICMP redirects

- security concern:
  - ICMP packets easy to fake
  - attacker can then **alter** your host's **routing tables** and traffic to external hosts on a path of their choice;
    - the new path is **kept active** by the router for **10 minutes**.
- **recommended** practice to **disable** `ICMP redirect` messages (ignore them) from all `public interfaces`

---

### Routing Public IPs

- At least **two** `public IP subnets` must be assigned by the **ISP**.
  - One is for the `WAN` of the **firewall**, and one for the `inside interface`.
  - Usually configured with a `/30` subnet for the WAN
  - The second subnet is assigned for the internal interface.

---

### Routing Protocol

- pfSense supports three routing protocols:
  - `RIP` (Routing Information Protocol)
  - `BGP` (Border Gateway Protocol)
  - `OSPF` (Open Shortest Path First).

---

### Troubleshooting Routes

- **Destination**:
  - This column contains the destination host or network.
  - The default route for the system is **simply listed** as default.

---

- `traceroute`, or `tracert` in windows
  - a used for testing and verifying routes and multi-WAN functionality.
- Shows each **“hop”** along the path a packet travels from one end to the other, along with the **latency** encountered in reaching that intermediate point.

---

## Traffic Shaper

- Why do we need to shape traffic?
  - Uses include:
    - Demands on network resources make **bandwidth** management a priority
    - Keep Browsing **Smooth**
    - Keep VoIP Calls Clear
    - Reduce Gaming **Lag**
    - Enforce Bandwidth **Limits**

---

- `Traffic Shaper`
  - There are **two types** of `QoS` available in pfSense software:
  - `ALTQ` and `Limiters`

1. `ALTQ` uses traffic shaping **queues** and traffic shaping **rules**.
   - The `queues` allocate **bandwidth** and **priority**
   - `Rules` determine **how traffic is assigned** to each respective queue
2. `Limiter` rules are handled differently.
   - Limiters apply on **regular pass rules** and enforce their limits on the traffic as it enters and leaves an interface.
   - Limiters almost always **exist in pairs**:
     - One for the **“download”** direction traffic
     - one for the **“upload”** direction traffic

---

### ALTQ

#### Voice over IP (VoIP)

- Prioritizing `VoIP` traffic sets up **queues** and **rules** to give priority to VoIP calls and related traffic.

#### Network Gaming

- Gaming traffic is given priority
  - Enable
  - Enable/Disable specific game services
  - Enable/Disable specific games

---

#### Editing Shaper Rules

- `Traffic shaping rules`

  - control how traffic is **assigned into queues.**

- Shaper Rule Matching Tips:
  - `NAT` applies before outbound **firewall rules** can match connections.
  - **Multiple** protocols using the **same port** **cannot be distinguished** by the firewall.
  - A protocol may use a **range of ports** so wide that it **cannot be distinguished** from other traffic.

---

### Uses for Limiters

- The primary use for `limiters` is to **apply bandwidth limits** and another method of traffic shaping.
- `Limiters` are currently the **only way** to achieve `per-IP address` or `per-network bandwidth rate limiting`.
- also allow for **reserved bandwidth** by limiting everything **except a specific protocol** which can then consume all remaining bandwidth

---

## Logging and Monitoring

### System Logs

- **Logs** are collected by **default**
- **Status > System Logs** or `/var/log/`
- `DHCP` and `IPsec` logs are **stored separately**

- Logs are contained in a **binary circular log format** called `clog`.
- Log file storage is a **fixed size** (but you can store remotely)
- Logs are **retained** on reboot

- Log Settings
  - globally
  - each log

---

### Global Log Settings

- By **default** the logs are displayed in their **natural order** with the **oldest** entries at the **top**
- number of log **entries to display**: 50
- size of the clog file: `500kb`

---

### Remote Logging with Syslog

- To start logging remotely
- port: 514

---

Sample Q

- Which of the following should receive **priority designation** when configuring traffic shaping on a pfSense firewall.

  - A Gaming Traffic
  - B Video Traffic
  - **C VoIP Traffic**
  - D All of the above

- The Cisco ASA creates default inspection policy and default class maps. However, these are both read only and the parameters cannot be changed.
  - **True**
  - False
  - I quit – this test is too hard!
