# Edge - CP01

[Back](../index.md)

- [Edge - CP01](#edge---cp01)
  - [Certification](#certification)
  - [Quantum Security Management](#quantum-security-management)
  - [Components of the Three-Tier Architecture](#components-of-the-three-tier-architecture)
    - [SMARTCONSOLE](#smartconsole)
    - [SECURITY MANAGEMENT SERVER](#security-management-server)
  - [SECURITY GATEWAY](#security-gateway)
  - [COMMON DEPLOYMENT SCENARIOS](#common-deployment-scenarios)
  - [架构](#架构)
  - [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [Gaia Operating System](#gaia-operating-system)

---

## Certification

- Core Certification

  - `Check Point Certified Security Administrator (CCSA): `
  - `Check Point Certified Security Expert (CCSE)`

- `Check Point Certified Security Master (CCSM)`
- `Check Point Certified Security Master Elite (CCSM Elite)`

---

## Quantum Security Management

## Components of the Three-Tier Architecture

### SMARTCONSOLE

- an interface help manage:

  - Security Policies
  - account
  - Server, Gateways, devices
  - env
  - log
  - license

- Type:
  - Desktop Clients
    - SmartConsole Client
    - Portable SmartConsole
  - Clientless, Browser-based Interface
    - Web SmartConsole

---

### SECURITY MANAGEMENT SERVER

- Database
  - PostgreSLQ
- Internal Certificate Authority
  - Issues certificates
- Log Server
- Licenses and Contracts Repository
- Monitoring
- Security Automation

---

- Server Options
  - Quantum Smart-1 Appliances
    - proprietary hardware
    - Run the Check Point Gaia operating system.
  - Open Servers
    - Hardware offered by third-party vendors.
    - Run the Check Point Gaia operating system.
  - Quantum Smart-1 Cloud

---

## SECURITY GATEWAY

- Proprietary appliances that combine:
  - The **translation** capabilities of **network gateways**
  - The security functions of `next-generation firewalls (NGFWs)`
  - **Threat prevention**

---

- Security Gateway Software Blades or Features

  - Two main types:
    - Network Security
    - Threat Prevention

- Access Control

  - Firewall
  - IPsec VPN
  - Mobile Access
  - Application Control
  - URL Filtering
  - Identity Awareness
  - Content Awareness

- Advanced Networking

  - Dynamic Routing
  - SecureXL
  - QoS
  - Monitoring

- Threat Prevention
  - SandBlast Threat Emulation, Threat Extraction, and Zero Phishing
  - IPS
  - Anti-Bot
  - Anti-Virus

---

## COMMON DEPLOYMENT SCENARIOS

- Standalone Deployment

  - `Security Management Server` and `Security Gateway` are installed on the **same** computer or appliance.

- Distributed Deployment
  - `Security Gateway` and the `Security Management Server` are installed on **different** computers or appliances.

关系：

- A `Security Management Server` is required even if the deployment system has **only** a single `Security Gateway`.
- A single `Security Management Gateway` can manage **multiple** `Gateways`.

---

## 架构

- `SIC (Secure Internal Communication)`：用于认证， 使用 SSL
- server 相当于 `ICA (Internal Certificate Authority)`

架构图略

---

- Workflow

`smartConsole: create` <-> `server: store` <-> `gateway:enforce`

---

## Deployment

### Gaia Operating System

- Gaia CLI

  - 2 types:
    - Gaia Clish (default)
    - Bash (Expert mode)

- access Gaia Clish
  - ssh
  - gaia portal (web)
  - smartconsole

---

- Gaia Commands(case-sensitive)
  - show commands
  - show commands feature : list feature
  - show commands op : list operation
  - show version all: version info

---

- Overriding the Configuration Lock
  - 可以 override
  - 一旦 override， 只读
  - 需要读写权限才能 override

---

- Q&A
- List the two main shells that the Gaia operating system provides.
  - Gaia Clish and Bash Expert
- Which shell is most restrictive?
  - Bash (Expert mode)
- What is the default shell?
  - Gaia Clish
- What is the default password for Expert mode?
  - no default password

---

- What are the three main components of the Check Point Three-Tier Architecture?

  - SmartConsole
  - Security Management Server
  - Security Gateway

- What is the main purpose of SmartConsole?
  - SmartConsole is the management **component**.
  - It is software installed on a Windows platform that provides a **graphical interface** for centralized management of the Check Point environment.
- What is the main purpose of a Security Management Server?
  - is a **dedicated server** that runs Check Point software to manage the objects and policies in a Check Point environment.
  - The Security Management Server software is installed on a server **running** the Check Point **Gaia** operating system.
- What is the main purpose of a Security Gateway?
  - an **entry point** or cyber barrier that prev**ents unauthorized traffic** from entering a company’s network.
  - It **stands between incoming and outgoing traffic** and **enforces** an organization’s security **policy**.

---

[TOP](#edge---cp01)
