# Edge - CP02

[Back](../index.md)

- [Edge - CP02](#edge---cp02)
  - [SmartConsole Administration](#smartconsole-administration)
    - [SmartConsole Objects](#smartconsole-objects)
  - [SMARTCONSOLE ADMINISTRATORS AND PERMISSIONS](#smartconsole-administrators-and-permissions)
    - [Permission Profiles](#permission-profiles)
  - [ADMINISTRATOR COLLABORATION](#administrator-collaboration)
  - [SmartWorkflow](#smartworkflow)
  - [Check Point LICENSING and contracts](#check-point-licensing-and-contracts)
  - [Automatic Licensing](#automatic-licensing)
  - [LICENSE MONITORING AND REPORTING WITH SMARTCONSOLE](#license-monitoring-and-reporting-with-smartconsole)
  - [SECURITY POLICY MANAGEMENT](#security-policy-management)
    - [Security Policy](#security-policy)
    - [Access Control Policy](#access-control-policy)
    - [Desktop Security Policy](#desktop-security-policy)
    - [QoS Policy](#qos-policy)
    - [Threat Prevention Policy](#threat-prevention-policy)
    - [Shared Policies](#shared-policies)
    - [Policy Packages](#policy-packages)
    - [Default Rule](#default-rule)
      - [Cleanup Rule](#cleanup-rule)
      - [Stealth Rule](#stealth-rule)
    - [Explicit and Implied Rules](#explicit-and-implied-rules)
    - [Rulebase Management - Rulebase Order](#rulebase-management---rulebase-order)
  - [Security Zones and Topology](#security-zones-and-topology)
    - [Predefined Security Zones](#predefined-security-zones)
  - [Policy Packages](#policy-packages-1)

---

## SmartConsole Administration

- SmartConsole database requires initial setup
  - objects to represent network topology
  - secondary administrator accounts

### SmartConsole Objects

- Physical Components

  - Security Gateways and Management Servers
  - Domain Name Servers
  - Demilitarized zones
  - Users

- Logical Components

  - Check Point and third-party **services**
  - IP address **ranges**
  - Third-party **applications**

- `Objects`

  - are used in **security policies and rules** to define and control network **operations**

- Types of Objects
  - network objects
  - services
  - Custom app/site
  - vpn
  - users
  - data types
  - servers
  - Time Objects
  - usercheck interaction
  - limits

---

## SMARTCONSOLE ADMINISTRATORS AND PERMISSIONS

- CPConfig Administrator

  - Created when the Primary Security Management **Server** is **configured**.
  - Assigned **Super User Permissions**.

- Additional Administrators
  - Created for task-based delegation, including:
    - Auditing
    - Session management
    - System monitoring and logging

---

### Permission Profiles

- `Super User`: Full Read/Write permissions, including management of administrator and sessions.
- `Read Write All`: Full Read and Write permissions
- `Read Only All`: Full Read Permissions. No Write permissions

- **Predefined, default permission profiles** cannot be edited or deleted but can be cloned. 默认不能修改， 但能复制

  - The clone can be edited and deleted.

- Users with an undefined authentication method can not log in to SmartConsole. 未定义认证不能登录
  - Access is denied or authentication is based on a certificate as defined in the Admin Certificates tab.

---

## ADMINISTRATOR COLLABORATION

- Manage Sessions Permission
- Concurrent Administration
  - **Multiple** administrators work in read-write mode on the **same** security policy without impacting the other’s work.
    - **Lock objects** being managed to avoid overwrites or conflicts.
    - Administrator profiles determine exact administrator privileges.
    - **Five** is the maximum number of policy installation tasks run at the same time. Anything above five is **queued**.

---

- Session Management
  - Revisions
  - **Revert** and **Purge** cannot be reversed.

---

## SmartWorkflow

---

- Q&A:
- Give at least one example of a **physical component** that network objects represent.
  - Security **Gateways** and Management **Servers**, and **users**
- Give at least one example of a logical component that network objects represent.
  - IP address **ranges**, **services**, and **app**
- What Permissions Profile allows unrestricted permissions?
  - **Super** User

---

## Check Point LICENSING and contracts

- Check Point Security **Management** and Security **Gateway** **Software Blade licenses** are `Perpetual Blades`, which means they have **no expiration date**.
- Service **blades**, such as IPS, URL Filtering, and Application Control are considered **Subscription Blades** and their licenses can **expire**.
- If an installed license **expires**, the corresponding products/features **stop** working.
  - If you **renew** your license or install a new license, the corresponding products/features continue working **again**.

---

- Standard Licenses

  - **Central** License (recommended)
    - **Attached to the IP address** of the Security Management **Server**.
    - Only one address needed for all licenses.
  - **Local** License
    - Used for **standalone devices** that can manage themselves.
    - For example, 6800-series devices.

- License Components
  - Software **Container**.
    - e.g., Security **Management**, Security **Gateway**, **Endpoint** Security.
  - Software **Blade**
    - Security features

---

## Automatic Licensing

- Automatic Licensing is only **supported** for Check Point **appliances**.
- To use this feature, the Management Server **must be able to connect to the Internet**.

---

## LICENSE MONITORING AND REPORTING WITH SMARTCONSOLE

- License Status Indicators
  - Green = OK (license is valid)
  - Yellow = Warning
  - Red = Critical Issue

---

Q&A:

- Name the three types of Software Containers.
  - Security **Management**, Security **Gateway**, **Endpoint** Security.
- What are Subscription **Blades**?
  - Service blades, such as IPS, URL **Filtering**, and **Application Control** are considered subscription blades. **Licenses** for subscription blades can **expire**.
- Name one reason to generate and install a new license.
  - Existing license **expires**.
  - License is **upgraded**.
  - **IP** address of the Security Management or Security Gateway has **changed**.

---

## SECURITY POLICY MANAGEMENT

### Security Policy

- a collection of rules and settings that **control network traffic** and enforce organization guidelines for data protection and access to resources with packet inspection.
- Policies are:

  - **Created** and managed using `SmartConsole`.
  - **Stored** on the `System Management Server`.
  - **Enforced** by `Security Gateways`.

- Types
  - Access Control Policy
  - Desktop Security Policy
  - QoS Policy
  - Threat Prevention Policy

---

### Access Control Policy

- Firewall
- Application & URL Filtering
- Content Awareness
- IPsec VPN and Mobile Access
- Identity Awareness

### Desktop Security Policy

### QoS Policy

- Policy-based **bandwidth management** solution
- **Prioritizes** business-critical traffic over lower priority traffic.
- Guarantees bandwidth and control latency for streaming applications, such as Voice over IP (VoIP) and video conferencing.
- Gives guaranteed or priority access to specified employees, even if they are remotely accessing network resources.

### Threat Prevention Policy

- **Autonomous** (out-of-the box) and **Custom** `Threat Prevention`.
- `IPS(intrusion prevention system)` - Comprehensive protection against malicious and unwanted network traffic.
- `Anti-Bot` - Post-infection detection of bots on hosts.
- `Anti-Virus` - Pre-infection detection and blocking of malware at the Security Gateway.
- `SandBlast` - Protection against infections from undiscovered exploits, zero-day, and targeted attacks.

---

### Shared Policies

- The Shared Policies section in a policy package provides access to these granular Software Blades and features:
  - **Mobile** Access
  - Data **Loss** Prevention
  - **HTTPS** Inspection

---

### Policy Packages

- **Group** of different types of policies that are installed together **on the same installation targets**.
- The `Security Gateway` **enforces** all the policies in the package.

---

### Default Rule

- Action: drop
  - Accept, Drop, Inform, or Reject.
- Track: None
  - Log, Alert, and related settings.
- Install On: Policy Targets

- Check Point recommends that rulebases contain **Cleanup** and **Stealth** rules.

---

#### Cleanup Rule

- how to handle connections **not matched** by the rules above it in the rulebase.
  - It is also necessary for **logging** this traffic.
- always at the bottom

---

#### Stealth Rule

- drop any traffic **destined for the Firewall** that is not otherwise explicitly allowed.

---

### Explicit and Implied Rules

- Explicit rules:

  - Created by the **administrator**.
  - Configured to allow or block traffic based on specified criteria.

- Implied rules:

  - Created by the **Security Gateway**.
  - Placed first, last, or before the last in the explicitly defined rule.
  - **Not visible** in the rulebase.

- **Implicit** Cleanup Action
  - Often called the Implied Cleanup Rule.
  - **Default function** of the policy layer.
  - It is a **Gateway** action or behavior.
  - Options are drop or accept.

---

### Rulebase Management - Rulebase Order

- Within the rulebase, rules are arranged in **top-down order** for matching purposes.
- When the Security Gateway receives a packet for a connection, it **examines the first rule** in the rulebase to see if there is a match.

  - If there is no match, the Security Gateway works its way **down** the list until it finds a match.
  - After a rule is matched, the Security Gateway enforces the rule; for example: Accept, Drop, or Reject the connection.

- Rule order is a **critical** aspect of an effective rulebase. The rule order can **affect the performance** of the Security Gateway and the accuracy of the policy.
- Always place more **specific** rules at the **top** of the rulebase and place more **general** rules **last** to prevent a general rule from being applied before a more specific rule

---

- Order of Operations

  1. Anti-**spoofing** Checks
  2. First **Implied** Rule

     - **Cannot** be **modified**, moved or **overwritten** in the rulebase.
     - **No** rules can be placed **before** it.
     - Applied **before all** other rules, including explicitly-defined and Last Implied rules.

  3. **Explicit** Rules

     - Located between First and Last Implied rules.
     - **Administrator-defined.**

  4. **Before Last Implied** Rules

     - More specific Implied rules.
     - Enforced **before the last rule** is applied.

  5. Last **Explicit** Rules

     - Should be **Explicit Cleanup** rule.

  6. Last **Implied** Rule

     - Applied after all other Explicit and Implied rules.
     - In the rulebase, except the final Implied Cleanup rule.

  7. Implicit **Cleanup** Action
     - Default behavior.

---

## Security Zones and Topology

- A `Security Zone` object represents a part of the network's topology;
  - for example:
    - Internal network
    - External network
    - Demilitarized zone (DMZ)Do
- `Security Zones` **simplify** rulebase creation and policy management.
- Using zones, you can apply the same rule to many Security Gateways and add networks to Security Gateways interfaces **without changing the rulebase**.

- `Security Zone` objects **automatically enforce changes** in the topology and let administrators efficiently add internal networks without updating the Security Policy.
- However, `Anti-Spoofing` **overrules** security zones because it does not automatically trust all networks in a zone.

---

### Predefined Security Zones

- `WirelessZone` - Networks that can be accessed by users and applications **with a wireless connection**.
- `ExternalZone` - Networks that are **not secure**, such as the Internet and other external networks.
- `DMZZone` - Demilitarized zone. Sometimes referred to as a **perimeter network**. It contains **company servers** that can be **accessed from external sources.**
- `InternalZone` - Company networks with sensitive data that **must be protected** and used **only by authenticated** users.

---

## Policy Packages

- Policy packages are logical **grouping** of one or more of these policy types:

  - Access Control
  - QoS
  - Desktop Security
  - Threat Prevention

- Workflow
  - create
  - publish
  - install

---

Q&A

- What type of rules are created by the Security Gateway?
  - Implied Rules
- What type of rules are created by the administrator?
  - Explicit Rules
- Where should the Cleanup rule be placed?
  - At the bottom of the rulebase

---

[TOP](#edge---cp02)
