# Edge - CP03

[Back](../index.md)

- [Edge - CP03](#edge---cp03)
  - [POLICY LAYERS](#policy-layers)
    - [types of Policy layers](#types-of-policy-layers)
  - [Check Point NAT](#check-point-nat)
    - [Check Point NAT](#check-point-nat-1)
    - [Translation Methods](#translation-methods)
    - [Check Point NAT Rules](#check-point-nat-rules)
    - [Rule Enforcement](#rule-enforcement)
    - [Hide NAT](#hide-nat)
    - [Static NAT](#static-nat)
    - [Proxy ARP for Manual NAT](#proxy-arp-for-manual-nat)
  - [Security elevation](#security-elevation)
    - [Application Control \& URL Filtering](#application-control--url-filtering)
    - [Application Control](#application-control)
    - [URL Filtering](#url-filtering)
    - [Autonomous Threat Prevention](#autonomous-threat-prevention)
    - [Monitoring Threat Prevention](#monitoring-threat-prevention)
  - [Site-to-Site VPN](#site-to-site-vpn)
    - [IPSec VPN Solution](#ipsec-vpn-solution)
    - [Internet Key Exchange (IKE)](#internet-key-exchange-ike)
    - [Site-to-Site VPN](#site-to-site-vpn-1)
    - [Authentication](#authentication)
    - [Access Control for VPN Traffic](#access-control-for-vpn-traffic)

---

## POLICY LAYERS

- **Set of rules** or rulebase in a policy.
- Lets you separate Security Policy into smaller, more manageable components.
- A layer can contain the following Blades:
  - **Firewall** (Network Access Control)
  - Application & URL **Filtering**
  - **Content Awareness**
  - **Mobile** Access

---

- Benefits
  - Helps you **visually organize** the rulebase.
  - **Simplifies** Policy management by allowing delegation of ownership of different layers.
  - Improves **performance** by reducing the number of rules in a layer.

---

### types of Policy layers

- Ordered layer:

  - Flat rulebase.
  - Each layer is processed sequentially for a match.
  - If an **accept match** is found, it is processed by the **next layer** until a final decision is made.
  - Can contain **inline** layers.

- Inline layer:
  - inline layers organize the Access Control policy into a hierarchy.
  - **Sub-policy** that is independent of rest of rulebase.
  - Attached to specific rules.
  - If rule is **matched**, inspection **continues** in attached sub-policy.
  - If rule is **not** matched, the sub-policy is **bypassed**.

---

- To pass through the Gateway, the connection must **match an acceptable** rule on **all** ordered layers. 要通过，至少有一个层接受
- Any sub-rule will only affect traffic that matches the parent rule, not the entire Access Control rulebase.子规则只对通过父规则的流量。

---

Q&A

- What is the purpose of Policy layers?
  - Policy layers are **sets of rules** or a rulebase.
  - They let you **divide a policy**, such as the Access Control policy, into smaller, more manageable sections that serve a certain purpose. The layers concept also provides more options for policy management, including the ability to set different views and edit permissions per layer for different administrator roles.
- What type of Policy layer is independent of the rest of the rulebase?
  - Inline

---

## Check Point NAT

### Check Point NAT

- NAT is a method of **mapping** an **IP** address to another **IP** address.
- From IETF:
  - A method by which IP addresses are mapped from one realm to another in an attempt to **provide transparent routing** to hosts.

---

### Translation Methods

- **Static NAT**:
  - **One-to-one** relationship between **private** and **public** IP addresses.
  - Useful for servers or hosts that require a consistent address accessible from the Internet.
- **Hide NAT:**
  - **Many-to-one** translation that hides **many source** IP addresses **behind one** or a few IP addresses.
  - Useful when fewer IP addresses are available.

---

### Check Point NAT Rules

- Two types of NAT rules:
  - Automatic
  - Manual
- Part of the `NAT Policy`.
- Generally viewed and configured with SmartConsole.

---

- **Automatic NAT Rules**

  - In most cases, the NAT Policy is **automatically populated** with the necessary rules.
  - The Security **Gateway creates** the rules automatically, based on the defined network object proper.

- **Manual NAT Rules**

  - e.g.,
  - **Specified IP addresses** (destination and source) or services (ports)
  - Static NAT in **only one direction**
  - Translation of **source and destination** IP addresses in the same packet
  - Translation of services (destination **ports**)
  - Translation of IP addresses for **dynamic objects**

- When using **manual** NAT rules, `Proxy ARP` is required.

---

### Rule Enforcement

- **Manual** Rule Enforcement 第一个

  - With manual rule enforcement, the **first** manual NAT rule that **matches** a connection is **enforced**.
  - The Firewall does **not enforce a different** NAT rule that can be more applicable.

- **Automatic** Rule Enforcement 同时匹配

  - With automatic rule enforcement, two automatic NAT rules that match a connection can be enforced:
    - One rule for the **source**
    - One rule for the **destination**
  - When a connection **matches two** automatic rules, those rules are **enforced**.

- can enable automatic NAT rules for these SmartConsole objects:
  - Security Gateways
  - Hosts
  - Networks
  - Address Ranges

---

### Hide NAT

- configured by manually

- Two rules are created automatically.
  - The first rule **prevents** the translation of packets traveling from the translated object **to itself**.
  - The second rule instructs the Security Gateway to **translate** packets whose **source** IP address is part of the **company’s network**.
    - This rule translates packets from private addresses to the IP address of the exiting interface of the Security Gateway.
- Modify IP address information associated with traffic packets as they pass through Security Gateway.

---

### Static NAT

- **Assigned to a server** that needs to be accessed directly **from outside** the Security Gateway.

- creation of Static NAT rules adds two rules

---

### Proxy ARP for Manual NAT

---

Q&A

- List the two types of rules that Check Point NAT supports for address translation.
  - Automatic
  - Manual
- What is the difference between Hide NAT and Static NAT?

  - Hide NAT is a solution that only allows **outgoing** connections.

    - It involves translating **many** `private addresses` to **one** `public address`.
    - Hide NAT is most often used to allow internal users access to external resources.

  - Static NAT allows **both** incoming and outgoing connections.
    - It involves the translation of **one** `private IP` address to **a** unique `public IP address` and from that unique public IP address to the private address.

---

## Security elevation

### Application Control & URL Filtering

- Granular control of social networks
- Applications and application features
- Identify, allow, block, or limit usage

- Use case:

  - Learn About Applications - AppWiki
  - Create a Granular Policy
  - Track Employees Online Usage
  - Keep Policies Updated
  - Custom Applications, Sites, Categories, and Groups

- Features:
  - Granular Application Control
  - Largest application library with AppWiki
  - Integrated into Security Gateways
  - Central Management
  - SmartEvent Analysis

---

### Application Control

- It is available as an **on-premise** or **cloud**-delivered network security service.

- Benefits
  - Application Control:
    - Provides **knowledge** about key areas of **applications**, web traffic, threats, and data patterns.
    - Provides **users** a better **understanding** of applications or threats, behavioral characteristics, and usage.
  - Organizations gain knowledge about:
    - Traffic source and destination
    - Security rules and zones

---

### URL Filtering

- URL (Uniform Resource Locator) filtering **restricts the online content** that individuals can access.
- Users are prevented from going to specific web sites and prohibited from using corporate resources in any way that could harmfully affect the organization.

- How URL Filtering Works
  - **Compares** web traffic against URL filters.
  - URL filter **categories** or groups include:
    - **Blocked** sites
    - **Allowed** sites
    - **Defined** IT Policies
    - **Blocked or Allowed** URL Filtering

---

### Autonomous Threat Prevention

- Provides **out-of-the-box Threat Prevention**, which **reduces** administrative overhead.

  - always up-to-date **without** the need for manual labor.

- Features:

  - **Single** Click Configuration -
  - **Automatic** Configuration Updates
  - **Streamlines** configuration and deployment of policy profiles across your Security Gateways.
  - Provides simple and powerful **customization** to serve your organization’s needs.

- Types:

  - **Recommended** for `Perimeter Profile`(**Default**):
  - **Data Center** East/West Profile
  - **Internal Network** Profile
  - **Strict Security** for Perimeter Profile:
  - **Recommended** for **Guest Network** Profile
  - **Customized** Profiles

- Technologies
  - Sandbox
  - ThreatCloud
  - Zero Phishing
  - Sanitization (CDR)
  - C&C Protection
  - IPS Protections
  - File & URL Reputation

---

### Monitoring Threat Prevention

- **Log** Sessions - Consolidated logs **based on sessions.**
  - default
  - All user activity
- **Packet** Captures - Greater insight into traffic that generated the log
  - `Security Gateway` **sends** a packet capture file with the log to the `Log Server`.
- Advanced **Forensic** Details - Additional fields that hold information that can be used for advanced forensic analysis of the traffic that triggered a protection.
  - DNS
  - FTP
  - HTTP
  - HTTPS
  - SMTP

---

Q&A:

- List at least two use cases for Application Control.

  - **Learn** about applications
  - **Create** a granular **policy**
  - **Track** employees online usage
  - **Keep** policies **updated**
  - **Customize** applications, sites, categories, and groups

- How does URL filtering work?
  - URL filtering works by **comparing** all web **traffic** against `URL filters`, which are typically contained in a database of sites that users are permitted to access or denied from accessing.
- What is the recommended profile supported by Autonomous Threat Prevention?
  - Perimeter

---

## Site-to-Site VPN

- VPN
  - VPN **securely connects** networks and protects the data that passes between them.
  - **Tunnels** are used to securely encrypt and decrypt the network communications

---

### IPSec VPN Solution

- Lets the Security `Gateway` **encrypt and decrypt traffic** to and from other Security `Gateways` and `clients`.
- `SmartConsole` is used to easily **configure**
- guarantees:
  - **Confidentiality** - All VPN data is encrypted.
  - **Integrity** - Uses industry-standard integrity assurance methods.
  - **Authenticity** - Uses standard authentication methods.

### Internet Key Exchange (IKE)

- IKE:

  - **Standard key** management protocol that is used to create the VPN tunnels.
  - **Authenticate** peers.
  - Produce a `symmetric key` on **both** sides to use for encryption and decryption of data.

- IKE Phase I
  - **Main** Mode and **Aggressive** Mode.
  - **one** mode and consists of **two** packets.
- IKE Phase II
  - **Quick** Mode. **Requires** **three** packets for negotiation
  - Consists of **two** packets.

---

### Site-to-Site VPN

- a deployment where **IPSec VPN tunnels** can be **established** between two `Security Gateways` to securely pass traffic **between hosts** behind these `Security Gateways` by encrypting and authenticating it.

- Management:

  - Check Point Security Gateway
    - Managed by the **same** Management Server.
    - Managed by **different** Management Server
  - Non-Check Point IPSec VPN
    - Managed by a **third**-party.

- Configuration
  - Domain-based: **domains** are **predefined** for all VPN Gateways.
  - Route-based: The Security Gateways have a `Virtual Tunnel Interface (VTI)` for **each** VPN Tunnel with a peer VPN Gateway.

---

### Authentication

- `IKE Phase I` authentication based on one of the following:

  - **Pre-shared** secret
  - PKI **certificate**

- VPN Communities
  - Named **collection of VPN domains** (hosts/networks that use the Security Gateway to send/receive VPN traffic), each protected by a VPN Gateway.
  - All **attributes** of the VPN Tunnels are **defined** in the VPN Community.
  - Based on Mesh and Star topologies.

---

### Access Control for VPN Traffic

- **Firewall**
  - is to **allow or drop traffic**, according to policy.
- The **Firewall Policy** decides whether the packets are accepted or dropped.
- The `VPN`
  - responsible for **encrypting, decrypting, and encapsulating** packets.
- `VPN community`

  - decides which traffic is **tagged** as VPN traffic and which **parameters** are used for the encryption and authentication.

- VPN Traffic Flow
  - Even if the Source and Destination are left with Any, the rule is limited to the `VPN Domains`. The **Source and Destination** can be used to further limit the rule to certain hosts or direction.

---

- Workflow
  - 1. **Enable** IPSec VPN **blade** and **set** the VPN **Domain** (for Domain-based) & Link Selection for each Security Gateway object.
  - 2. Create or use an existing default VPN **community** and **add** the Gateways.
  - 3. Select the VPN Community **encryption parameters**, as needed.
  - 4. Set the **Tunnel Management** and other **Advanced properties**.
    - For external or third-party VPNs, **optionally** select the Shared Secret.
  - 5. Either add an explicit **Firewall Rule** to all traffic as required or enable the Encrypted Traffic option in the VPN community.

---

Q&A:

- What is a VPN community?
  - A VPN community is a named **collection of VPN domains** (hosts / networks that use the Security Gateway to send / receive VPN traffic), each **protected** by a `VPN Gateway`.
  - All the **attributes** of the VPN Tunnels are defined in the VPN Community
- Define IKEv1 and IKEv2.
  - IKEv1 is the **default version** which is supported on **most** new and older systems.
  - IKEv2 is the **newer version** supporting `IPv6`, but currently Check Point Remote Access VPN clients do **not support** it.
- List the two topologies on which VPN communities can be based.
  - Mesh and Star topologies.

---

[TOP](#edge---cp03)
