# Edge - CP03

[Back](../index.md)

- [Edge - CP03](#edge---cp03)
  - [Monitoring Operations](#monitoring-operations)
    - [Tools](#tools)
    - [Logging](#logging)
    - [Log Configuration](#log-configuration)
    - [Log Queries](#log-queries)
      - [Predefined Log Queries](#predefined-log-queries)
      - [Complex Queries](#complex-queries)
      - [Tops Tab](#tops-tab)
    - [Monitoring Traffic and Connections](#monitoring-traffic-and-connections)
  - [Security Maintenance](#security-maintenance)
    - [Snapshot](#snapshot)
    - [Snapshot Management](#snapshot-management)
    - [Factory Default Images](#factory-default-images)
      - [Factory Default Image Management](#factory-default-image-management)
    - [System Backup](#system-backup)
      - [Backup and Restore](#backup-and-restore)
    - [Hardware Health](#hardware-health)
    - [Software Release](#software-release)

---

## Monitoring Operations

- tools used to view logs and monitor devices.
- log settings on the Management `Server` and Security `Gateway`.
- predefined and custom queries to filter log results.
- Monitor devices.

### Tools

| Tool              | View log | monitor stats | Access        |
| ----------------- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| SmartConsole      | Y        | Y             | Desktop & Web |
| SmartView         | Y        | N             | Desktop       |
| SmartView Monitor | No       | Y             | web           |

---

### Logging

- Default:
  - send logs -> `Server`
- Optional:
  - Dedicated log server

---

### Log Configuration

- On `server`
  - Management `Server` (default)
  - Enable Log **Indexing** (default)
  - Local Storage
    - Disk Space Management
  - Export
    - After you configure a Log Exporter, you must **run Install Database**
  - Additional Logging
    - Log **Forwarding** Settings
    - Log **Files**
    - **Advanced** Settings
- On Security Gateway

  - Similar process
  - logs can
    - Save logs locally, on the machine (`Gateway`)
    - Send Gateway logs and alerts to the server [Management `Server`]

- **After** the log **configuration** is complete, the **next** step is to **install** the database.

---

- Track Options

  - `None`,
  - `Log`,
  - and `Accounting`(Updates the log at 10-minute intervals. )

- Alert
  - None
  - Alert
  - SNMP
  - Mail
  - User Alert(customized)

---

- More
  - alter:
    - None
    - Log
    - Detailed Log
    - Extended Log
  - Log Generation
    - per connection
    - per session

---

### Log Queries

- Network **performance is not impacted** because the log view typically only displays the first 50 results.
  - can exported to CSV

#### Predefined Log Queries

- Used to filter logs based on specific criteria.
- can be saved to My Favorites

---

#### Complex Queries

- using:
  - Boolean operators
  - Wildcards
  - Fields
  - Ranges

#### Tops Tab

- Provides a way to **filter logs in top categories.**
- view the top logs for specific items:
  - Sources
  - Destinations
  - Services
  - Actions
  - Blades
  - Origins
  - Users
  - Applications

---

### Monitoring Traffic and Connections

- tools:

  - **SmartConsole**
  - SmartView **Monitor**

- Gateways & Servers - Status Column:
  - OK
  - Attention
  - Problem
  - Waiting
  - Disconnected
  - Untrusted

---

Q&A

- Which tool can be used to collect and view **logs and monitor** devices?
  - **SmartConsole**
- How many logs are typically displayed in the **default** view?
  - **50**
- What information is available in the Gateway & Servers **Monitor** view?
  - **Device** Status
  - **License** Status
  - System **Counters**
  - **Traffic**

---

## Security Maintenance

- backing up
- monitor the health of hardware
- Identify ways to update Check Point solution software.
- Check Point software release types.

---

### Snapshot

- Creates a binary image of the entire root (lv_current) disk partition.
- Includes:

  - **File system**, with customized files
  - System **configuration** (interfaces, routing, hostname, and similar)
  - Software **Blades** configuration
  - Management **database**

- Best Practices

- Create a snapshot:
  - After a **fresh (new) installation** of Gaia.
  - **Before** making a **major configuration**.
  - **Before** an **upgrade or hotfix installation**.

---

### Snapshot Management

- using

  - the Gaia Portal on the Management Server
  - command line (Gaia Clish and Export mode).

- activities

  - Creating
  - Exporting
  - Importing
  - Deleting

- can also schedule a **snapshot**
  - a snapshot is very large
  - different than the scheduling procedure for **backups**.
- Before creating a snapshot, make sure the appliance or storage destination has **sufficient disk space**.
- Do **not** rename the **exported** image.
- If you **reverted** a snapshot on a Security Gateway, **install** the Security Policy.

---

- Gaia Clish

```sh
# Create a snapshot as a local LVM volume
add snapshot-onetime name namd_snapshot description "<Description of Snapshot>"
# Create a snapshot and export it to a local file:
add snapshot-onetime name namd_snapshot description "<Description of Snapshot>" target local path Local_Path
# Create a snapshot and upload it to an FTP server.
add snapshot-onetime name namd_snapshot description "<Description of Snapshot>" target ftp ip <IPv4 Address of FTP Server> path <Path on FTP Server> username <User Name on FTP Server> password <Password in Plain Text>
# Create a snapshot image and upload it to an SCP server.
add snapshot-onetime name namd_snapshot description "<Description of Snapshot>" target scp ip <IPv4 Address of SCP Server> path <Path on SCP Server> username <User Name on SCP Server> password <Password in Plain Text>
# Export an existing snapshot and save it as a local file:
set snapshot-onetime export <Name of Exported Snapshot> target local path <Local Path>


# Export an existing snapshot and upload it to an FTP server:
set snapshot-onetime export <Name of Exported Snapshot> target ftp path <Path on FTP Server> ip <IPv4 Address of FTP Server> username <User Name on FTP Server> password <Password in Plain Text>
# Export an existing snapshot and upload it to an SCP server:
set snapshot-onetime export <Name of Exported Snapshot> target scp path <Path on SCP Server> ip <IPv4 Address of SCP Server> username <User Name on SCP Server> password <Password in Plain Text>

# Import an existing snapshot from a local file:
set snapshot-onetime import <Name of Imported Snapshot> target local path <Local Path>
# Import an existing snapshot from an FTP server:
set snapshot-onetime import <Name of Imported Snapshot> target ftp ip <IPv4 Address of FTP Server> path <Path on FTP Server> username <User Name on FTP Server> password <Password in Plain Text>
# Import an existing snapshot  from an SCP server:
set snapshot-onetime import <Name of Imported Snapshot> target scp ip <IPv4 Address of SCP Server> path <Path on SCP Server> username <User Name on SCP Server> password <Password in Plain Text>
```

---

- Reverting a Snapshot Using Gaia Clish

- When Gaia **reverts** to a snapshot, it **overwrites the existing** running configuration and settings.
  - Make sure you know credentials of the snapshot to which you revert.
- **Before reverting** to a snapshot on a new appliance or after resetting to factory defaults, **run** the Gaia **First Time** Configuration Wizard and **configure** the **same settings** used when you created the snapshot.
- If you **revert** a snapshot on a Security Gateway, **install the Security Policy**.

```sh
# Import and revert an existing snapshot image from a local LVM volume:
set snapshot-onetime revert target lvm name <External Name of Snapshot>
# Importing and reverting an existing snapshot image from a local file:
set snapshot-onetime revert target local name <Imported Name of Snapshot> path <Local Path>
# Import and revert an existing snapshot image from an FTP server:
set snapshot-onetime revert target ftp name <Imported Name of Snapshot> path <Path on FTP Server> ip <IPv4 Address of FTP Server> username <User Name on FTP Server> password <Password in Plain Text>
# Import and revert an existing snapshot image from an SCP server:
set snapshot-onetime revert target scp name <Imported Name of Snapshot> path <Path on SCP Server> ip <IPv4 Address of SCP Server> username <User Name on SCP Server> password <Password in Plain Text>
```

---

```sh
delete snapshot <Name of Snapshot>
lvs
```

---

### Factory Default Images

- Factory default images on Check Point appliances are **created automatically when you install or upgrade** an appliance to another release.
- You **can restore** your Check Point appliance **to the factory default image** for a specified release.

  - **overwrites** all existing configuration settings.

- **Create** a snapshot image **before you restore** a factory default image.
- **Export all existing** snapshots from the appliance **before** you **restore** a factory default image.

---

#### Factory Default Image Management

- Using Gaia Portal
- Gaia Clish.

```sh
set fcd revert<SPACE><TAB>
set fcd revert <Name of Default Image>
reboot
```

---

### System Backup

- Creates a **compressed file** that includes:
  - Gaia operating system
  - Security Management Server database
    - File location: /var/log/CPbackup/backups/
    - File type: \*tgz

#### Backup and Restore

- preferred method of recovery
- Save your Gaia system configuration settings as a ready-to-run CLI shell script.

---

- Importants:
  - You can only migrate using the **same Gaia version** on the source and target computers
  - To change the **name** of a backup file, you **must use the command line** (Expert mode).
    - You **cannot** use the Gaia **Portal**.
    - Do **not** use **special characters**.
  - After you add, configure, or delete features, run the **save** config command to **save the settings** permanently.
  - You can **save** your Gaia configuration settings **as a ready-to-run CLI shell script**.
    - This lets you quickly restore your system configuration after a system failure or migration.

---

skip

---

### Hardware Health

- Depending on the hardware type, you must monitor these hardware elements:

  - **Fan** sensors - Shows the fan number, status, and speed.
  - System **Temperature** sensors
  - **Voltage** sensors
  - **Power** Supplies (on servers that support it)

- Tools:

  - Gaia Portal
  - Gaia Clish
    - `show sysenv all `

- Monitor the `RAID` status of the disks to see when the **hard disks are synchronized**.

- If you **reboot** the appliance **before** the hard disks are **synchronized**, the **synchronization starts** again at the **next boot**.

---

### Software Release

- terms to define its software releases:

- Major release
  - Introduces **new functionality** and innovative **technologies**.
- Minor release

  - Provides **new features** and stability **fixes**.

- Phases:

  - Early Availability
  - Latest Version
  - Recommended Version

---

- Management **Feature** release
  - Introduces **new features** and stability fixes **between Major and Minor releases**.
- Special Release
  - **Specific** to a **feature** or scenario.

---

- Jumbo **Hotfix** Accumulator

  - Accumulation of fixes and enhancements.

- two phases:
  - Latest Jumbo:
    - Latest version for early adopters.
  - Recommended Jumbo:
    - Recommended version for all deployments.

---

Q&A

- Give at least two situations in which a snapshot is recommended.

  - After a fresh installation of Gaia.
  - Before making a major configuration.
  - Before an upgrade or hotfix installation.

- Why is it recommended to schedule regular backups?

  - To **preserve** the Gaia operating system configuration and Firewall database

- What is the preferred method of recovery?

  - Backup and Restore

- In what compressed file format is a backup saved?
  - A \*.tgz file

---

[TOP](#edge---cp03)
