# Doc - Wk08

[Back](../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk08](#doc---wk08)
  - [Financial Feasibility](#financial-feasibility)
    - [Hardw/Software Cost](#hardwsoftware-cost)
  - [Operational Feasibility](#operational-feasibility)
  - [Technical Feasibility](#technical-feasibility)

---

Describe the **processes** / calculations necessary to determine **financial feasibility** of a system.
Describe the information & **processes** necessary to determine **operational feasibility** of a system.
Describe the information & **processes** necessary to determine **technical feasibility** of a system.

## Financial Feasibility

- `Financial feasibility`:

  - Financial feasibility means the **ability of a project**, once completed, to be **maintained** and **operated** for its useful life with **funds** either generated **by the project itself** or from an identifiable **source** of funds available for such purpose.

- These financial decisions are based on two specific **factors**
  - expected $ return
  - expected risk
- a `financial feasibility analysis` is a means for researching and **documenting** those two factors.

- Over time the accuracy and effectiveness of feasibility decisions will be seen in **profits/losses on income statements**.

---

- Where do companies **get their information** from for documenting their profits/losses?
- Companies accurately **account for their financial health** and ongoing feasibility using **common accounting practices**, as described at a high level using what are `T accounts`, as per : https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/knowledge/accounting/t-accounts/

- Large corporations usually **pay accounting companies** to **review** and **certify** that the large corporations accounting results are accurate and true representations of a companies financial health and feasibility.
  - Obviously most companies are health, but these accounting companies make mistakes, or can be misled by corporate executives: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Accounting_scandals

---

- Using those same principles/calculations, how could you apply them to ongoing systems? What is different ? What is the same?
  - What is expected to happen to costs & benefits in $ (and in ratio) over time? Will they always be the same ?
- Realize that with technology based information systems, they will often need to be :
  - **Maintained regularly**
  - **Upgraded** and/or replaced **eventually** – these costs are NOT usually included in ongoing operating costs
    … so financial feasibility analysis is ongoing!

---

- So **ongoing** `financial feasibility analysis` requires you discuss/negotiate **ongoing budgets** with system owners (who may or may not provide ongoing revenue :

  - Regular **Maintainance** AND
  - **Upgrades** & possible replacements or re-builds

- All this financial feasibility analysis work must also recognize and plan for current and perceived future risks, just as the original system project planning included risk analysis in the financial feasibility planning. Realize that all future planning like this relies on accurate and reliable current system cost data, and is sensitive to variability in the size and scope of future risks/plans.
- So how do we document current system cost data?

---

- So how do we **document** current system **cost data**?
  - Each and every system in an organization must have both a **business owner** and a **technology owner** (often in smaller organizations there are the same…).
  - There will therefore need to be a **budget** for all the costs of maintaining (and upgrading) each system.
  - In larger organizations, this will require properly counting resource usage against specific systems, and determining how to properly charge different business units for those systems.
  - This is usually **split into** **people costs** (ie. The IT people like you that maintain/upgrade the systems), and the **hardware/software costs** (ie. All infrastructure costs), and any **Vendor costs** (if your systems include vendor supplied software).
  - See this article for a more detailed discussion of what to think about if you need to know “How to do IT ChargeOut right”: https://www.computerworld.com/article/2561851/charge-out--how-to-do-it-right.html

---

### Hardw/Software Cost

- At a large organization like a big Canadian bank, how do we document current system cost data? Continuing with IT Vendor costs :
- Technology system **hardware and software vendor costs** are usually based again on the specific **contracts with Vendors**, and the specific **resource usage** of the particular systems that those vendors supply.
- This again requires that every program/transaction/screen/etc. piece of the vendor IT system that uses CPU, storage, network / etc. vendor resources be properly named to uniquely identify & track usage at this “System Name” level.
  - So for example Savings account programs start with SAV\_ \_ \_ \_ _ and RSP system programs start RSP _ \_ \_ \_ \_ , etc.
- These Technology system hardware and software **vendor cost details** are **supplied from the IT Vendor** directly to the Business Owners, usually in the **form of invoicing**, which would also be included in `TCO (Total Cost Ownership)` calculations.

---

## Operational Feasibility

- `Operational feasibility`:

  - The **measure** of how **well** a proposed system **solves the problems**, and takes advantage of the opportunities identified during scope definition and how it **satisfies the requirements** identified in the requirements analysis phase of system development.

- Operational feasibility research and documentation work **requires** a technical systems analyst to gather information necessary to answer a number of operational questions…

- These questions are the very same/similar to the operational feasibility questions answered by making **requirement scoping decisions** when building the original system, but we are going to focus on existing systems operations.

---

- **Operational feasibility studies** are utilized to answer the following **questions**:
  - **Process –** How do the **end-users feel** about the processes that are used?
  - **Evaluation**: How well the system processes within the organization are working. ie. Are there system problems/complaints from stakeholders?
  - **Operations –** Details of the Stakeholder, manager, and end-user tasks.
  - **Resistance –** Evaluate management, team, and individual resistance to the original system & their perspective as the system has been operated.

---

## Technical Feasibility

- Obviously if the system is currently running, then the technology is likely feasible (although if it is a new system with problems it is possible that it is not really feasible).
  - As well as technology changes it may become infeasible technically.
- Technical feasibility looks at **what is practical and reasonable**. Technical feasibility addresses three major issues:
  - Is the proposed technology or solution **practical**?
  - Do we currently have or can we develop/acquire the **necessary** technology?
  - Do we possess or can we develop the necessary technical **expertise**?
