# Amazon Bedrock - Fundamental

[Back](./fundamental.md)

- [Amazon Bedrock - Fundamental](#amazon-bedrock---fundamental)
  - [Amazon Bedrock](#amazon-bedrock)
  - [Invoek Model](#invoek-model)
    - [Inference Parameters](#inference-parameters)

---

## Amazon Bedrock

- fully managed, serverless service
- available to base Foundation Models through an API.

---

## Invoek Model

### Inference Parameters

- `Parameters`
  - used to control the response generated by the model

- Common Parameters

- **Randomness and diversity**
  - `Temperature`:
    - Controls **randomness**.
    - **Lower** values:
      - close to 0
      - make the model more **deterministic** and focused, by selecting the higher-probability words.
    - **higher** values:
      - close to 1
      - make it more **creative or chaotic**, by selecting a lower-probability word

  - `Top-K`:
    - **Limits token selection** to the **most likely** next tokens
    - Cutoff where the model no longer selects the words.
  - `Top-P` (Nucleus Sampling):
    - **Limits token selection** to a subset whose cumulative probability reaches
    - Caps choices based on the sum of their probabilities.

  - `Frequency Penalty`
    - **Penalizes tokens** based on how many times they have already appeared.
    - Higher numbers **reduce repetitive phrasing**.
  - `Presence Penalty`
    - **Penalizes tokens** based on whether they have **appeared at all**.
    - **Higher** numbers encourage the model to talk about **new topics**.

- Length
  - `Length`:
    - Controls the **length** of the **generated response**.
    - Helps control cost.
  - `Max Tokens`:
    - Specify the **maximum number of tokens** to use in the **generated response**.
  - `Stop Sequences`:
    - A string that **tells the model to stop** generating immediately when it hits a specific character or word.
    - **Model-decided stop** (end-of-sequence token) – Model training
    - **System-enforced stop** (stop sequences or max tokens)
    - **After a stop sequence**, the model stops generating further tokens.
    - The **returned text doesn't contain the stop sequence**.`{"firstName":"John", "lastName":"Doe"}`

---
