# Interface - Wk10

[Back](../interface.md)

- [Interface - Wk10](#interface---wk10)
  - [Hardware Interface](#hardware-interface)
    - [Some Common Hardware Interfaces](#some-common-hardware-interfaces)
    - [Network Harware Interface](#network-harware-interface)
      - [Wireless Adapters](#wireless-adapters)
      - [Switches](#switches)
      - [Netwrok Repeater](#netwrok-repeater)
      - [Network Bridge](#network-bridge)
      - [Routers](#routers)
      - [Firewalls](#firewalls)
      - [Cabling](#cabling)
        - [Unshielded Twisted Pair](#unshielded-twisted-pair)
        - [Shielded Twisted Pair (STP) Cable](#shielded-twisted-pair-stp-cable)
        - [Fibreoptic Cable](#fibreoptic-cable)
      - [Wireless Standards and Speeds](#wireless-standards-and-speeds)

---

## Hardware Interface

- An `architecture` used to **interconnect** two devices together.
- It includes the design of the **plug** and **socket**, the type, number and purpose of the **wires** and the **electrical signals** that are passed across them.
- A `hardware interface` is described by the **mechanical**, **electrical** and **logical signals** at the interface and the **protocol** for sequencing them (sometimes called signaling).
- A `standard interface`, such as **SCSI**, decouples the design and introduction of computing hardware, such as I/O devices, from the design and introduction of other components of a computing system, thereby allowing users and manufacturers great flexibility in the implementation of computing systems

- `Hardware interfaces` exist in many of the **components**, such as the various **buses**, **storage** devices, other **I/O** devices, etc.
- `Hardware interfaces` can be **parallel** with several electrical connections carrying parts of the data simultaneously, or **serial** where data are sent one bit at a time.
  - For example, a printer being connected to a **USB port** is actually connected to the USB interface of the system.
  - Another example of a hardware interface is a **graphics** card plugged into a **PCI slot**, which is using the PCI interface to connect and communicate.

---

### Some Common Hardware Interfaces

- **Serial** and **parallel** interfaces
  - A `serial interface`, commonly used in **communications**, allows data to be **sent one bit at a time** (sequentially) down **the same line/channel**.
    A `parallel interface` is capable of sending **many bits of data at a time** **via numerous lines/channels**.
- `USB interfaces`

  - The `USB interface` is a **serial interface** which is commonly used to connect all sorts of devices, including printers, scanners, external storage devices, mice, digital cameras and more. It has become one the most common interfaces for external devices.

- `PCI, PCI-X and PCI Express interfaces`
  - With the exception of `PCI Express`, which uses **high-speed serial logic**, `PCI` uses **multiple parallel** communication.
  - The PCI family of interfaces are used for countless internal devices, including sound cards, modems, graphics cards and many other expansion cards.
- **The IEEE 1394/ Firewire / iLink interface**
  - The IEEE 1394, often referred to as `Firewire` and `iLink`, interface is a **serial interface** with high-speed capabilities.
  - It is commonly used for the connection and communication of **audio** and **video** devices.

---

### Network Harware Interface

- A `network interface`

  - a software or hardware **interface** between two pieces of **equipment** or **protocol layers** in a computer network.
  - A network interface will usually have some form of **network address**.
  - This may consist of a **node identifier** and a **port number** or may be a unique node ID in its own right.

- The `network interface card (NIC)`
  - provides the **physical connection** between the **network** and the computer workstation.
- **Most** NICs are **internal**, and they are included in the purchase of most computers.
- `Network interface cards` are a **major factor** in determining the **speed** and **performance** of a network.
- It is a good idea to use the fastest network card available for the type of workstation you are using.
- The most **common** network interface connections are `Ethernet cards` and `wireless adapters`.

---

#### Wireless Adapters

- `Wireless adapters` are found in most **portable** devices, such as laptops, smart phones, and tablet devices.
- `External wireless adapters` can be purchased and installed on most computers having an open **USB** (`Universal Serial Bus`) port, or unused expansion slot.

---

#### Switches

- An `Ethernet switch` is a device that **provides a central connection point for cables** from workstations, servers, and peripherals.
- Most switches are active, that is they electrically **amplify the signal** as it moves from one device to another.
- The **predecessor** of the switch was the `hub`, which broadcasted all inbound packets out all ports of the device, creating huge amounts of unnecessary network traffic.
- Modern switches build a **port map** of all IP addresses which respond on each port, and only broadcasts on all ports when it doesn't have a packet's target IP address already in its port map.

---

#### Netwrok Repeater

- Since a **signal loses strength** as it passes along a cable or with distance if wireless it is often necessary to **boost the signal** with a device called a `repeater`.
- The `repeater` electrically **amplifies the signal** it **receives** and **rebroadcasts** it. Repeaters can be separate devices or they can be incorporated into a concentrator.
  - They are used when the **total length of your network cable** exceeds the standards set for the type of cable being used.
  - Or the wireless distance causes signal degradation

---

#### Network Bridge

- A `bridge` is a **device** that allows you to **segment a large network into two smaller**, more efficient networks.
  - If you are adding to an older wiring scheme and want the new network to be up-to-date, a bridge can connect the two.
- A `bridge` **monitors** the information **traffic** on both sides of the network so that it can pass packets of information to the correct location.
- Most bridges can **"listen" to the network** and automatically **figure out the address** of each computer on both sides of the bridge.
  - The `bridge` can **inspect** each message and, if necessary, broadcast it on the other side of the network.
- The `bridge` **manages the traffic** to maintain optimum **performance** on both sides of the network.
- Bridges can be used to **connect different types** of cabling, or physical topologies.
- They **must**, however, be used between networks with **the same protocol**.

---

#### Routers

- `Routers` are the **traffic directors** of the network.
- All `routers` **maintain** complex `routing tables` which allow them to **determine appropriate paths** for packets destined for any address.
- Routers communicate with each other, and **forward network packets** out of or into a network.
- Here's an example:
  - While `bridges` know the **addresses of all** computers on each side of the network, `routers` know the **addresses other routers** which in turn know about their own networks.
  - Routers can even "listen" to entire networks to determine which sections are **busiest** -- they can then **redirect** data around those sections until traffic congestion clears.
- So, `routers` are **network gateways**.
  - They move network packets **from one network to another**, and many can **convert** from one network **protocol to another** as necessary.
- `Routers` **select the best path to route** a message, based on the destination address of the packet.
  - If you have a network that you want to connect to the Internet, you will need to purchase a router. In this case, the router **serves as the forwarder** between the information on your network and the Internet.

---

#### Firewalls

- A `firewall` is a **device** that is **installed at the entrance** to a network when connecting networks together, particularly when connecting a private network to a public network, such as the internet.
- The firewall **uses rules to filter traffic** into and out of the private network, to protect the private network users and data from malevolent hackers.
- `Firewalls` are either **hardware** or **software**, depending on their intended use.
- A firewall used to protect a network is a **hardware device** that should be installed in the network between the router and the network.
- Almost all **hardware firewalls** will have **at least two ports**, labeled "**Trusted**" and "**Untrusted**".
  - These terms imply the true nature of the firewall's responsibility to the private network.
  - The **public** network is connected to the **untrusted network port**, and the **private** network is connected to the **trusted port**.

---

#### Cabling

- `Cable` is the **medium** through which information usually **moves** from one network device to another.
- There are several **types** of cable which are commonly used with LANs.
  - In some cases, a network will utilize **only one** type of cable, other networks will use a variety of cable types.
- The type of cable chosen for a network is related to the network's **topology, protocol, and size**.

---

##### Unshielded Twisted Pair

- `Twisted pair cabling` comes in two varieties:
  - shielded
  - unshielded.
- `Unshielded twisted pair (UTP)` is the most popular and is generally the best option for general networks

---

##### Shielded Twisted Pair (STP) Cable

- Although `UTP cable` is the **least expensive** cable, it may be **susceptible** to radio and electrical frequency **interference** (it should not be too close to electric motors, fluorescent lights, etc.).
- If you must place cable in environments with lots of potential **interference**, or if you must place cable in extremely **sensitive** environments that may be susceptible to the electrical current in the UTP, `shielded twisted pair` may be the solution.
- `Shielded cables` can also help to extend the maximum distance of the cables.
- Coaxial cable(同轴电缆) with BNC connector

---

##### Fibreoptic Cable

- `Fiber optic cabling` consists of a center **glass core** surrounded by several layers of protective materials (See fig. 5).
- It **transmits light** rather than electronic signals **eliminating** the problem of **electrical interference**.
  - This makes it ideal for certain environments that contain a large amount of electrical interference.
- It has also made it the standard for connecting networks between buildings, due to its **immunity** to the effects of **moisture** and **lighting**.
- Fiber optic cable has the ability to transmit signals over much **longer distances** than coaxial and twisted pair.
- It also has the capability to carry information **at vastly greater speeds**. This capacity broadens communication possibilities to include services such as video conferencing and interactive services.
- The **cost** of fiber optic cabling is **comparable** to copper cabling; however, it is more **difficult to install and modify**. 10BaseF refers to the specifications for fiber optic cable carrying Ethernet signals.

---

#### Wireless Standards and Speeds

- The `Wi-Fi Alliance` is a global, **non-profit organization** that helps to **ensure standards** and interoperability for wireless networks, and wireless networks are often referred to as `WiFi (Wireless Fidelity)`.
- The original Wi-Fi standard (`IEEE 802.11`) was adopted in 1997.
- Wi-Fi networks use the **Ethernet** protocol
