# Data Tech: wk07

[Back](../data_tech.md)

- [Data Tech: wk07](#data-tech-wk07)
  - [SQL Table Joins](#sql-table-joins)
    - [Joining Tables in SQL](#joining-tables-in-sql)
    - [INNER JOIN](#inner-join)
    - [LEFT JOIN](#left-join)
    - [RIGHT JOIN](#right-join)
    - [FULL OUTTER JOIN](#full-outter-join)
    - [SELF JOIN](#self-join)
    - [Cartesian Join (Avoid)](#cartesian-join-avoid)

---

Understand the benefit of join tables
Understand the various types of table joins
Model joins tables

## SQL Table Joins

### Joining Tables in SQL

- **Joining tables** is a fundamental operation in SQL, allowing you to **combine data from multiple tables**.

- When SQL joins data from 2 different tables together, it will combine the data from the 2 tables together on one row.

  - For example, if one table had 5 columns, the 2nd table had 3 columns and you used SELECT \* to indicate all columns, the query would produce results containing 8 columns in total.
  - The number of rows returned **depends on** the data in each of the two tables and the **type of Join used**.

- Types of Joins

  - Inner Join
  - Left Join
  - Right Join
  - Full Outer Join

- Joins and Relationships
  - To “join” multiple tables, we must first **know the relationships** between them.
  - This is another area where Relationship Diagrams are helpful to view the different relationships and see how tables are joined, or linked, to one another.

---

### INNER JOIN

- The most common type of join.
- Returns **only the matching rows** between the tables.
- It is the **default join type** for most relational databases, including SQL Server.

  - This means if you type the word “JOIN” without the qualifier “INNER” in front of it, SQL will assume the join type is INNER JOIN.

- Note that the order of the “PK” and “FK” in the ON clause can be switched, the important thing is that you have **specified the correct PK and FK** that defines the relationship between the 2 tables you are joining.
- Syntax: `SELECT * FROM table1 INNER JOIN table2 ON table1.column = table2.column;`

---

### LEFT JOIN

- Returns **all rows** from the **left** table and **matching rows** from the **right** table.

  - If there is no match, it returns `NULL` values for the **right** table.

- Syntax: `SELECT * FROM table1 LEFT JOIN table2 ON table1.column = table2.column;`

---

### RIGHT JOIN

- Returns **all rows** from the **right** table and **matching** rows from the **left** table.
  - If there is no match, it returns `NULL` values for the **left** table.
- Syntax: `SELECT * FROM table1 RIGHT JOIN table2 ON table1.column = table2.column;`

---

### FULL OUTTER JOIN

- `full outer join / full join`
- Returns **all rows** from **both** tables, including non-matching rows.
  - If there is no match, it returns `NULL` values for the respective table.
- Syntax: `SELECT * FROM table1 FULL OUTER JOIN table2 ON table1.column = table2.column;`

---

### SELF JOIN

- This is when we **join a table to itself**.

  - In other words, we want to **compare** values in a column with other values **in the same column** in the **same table.**

- Some practical examples of when we would need to use a self-join would be:

  - Find entities in the same geographic area.
  - Find entities with the same last name.
  - Find entities reporting to the same supervisor.

- To join a table to itself, there are some specific steps we can follow:
  - 1. Select from the same table listed twice with different table **aliases**.
  - 2. Set up the **comparison**.
  - 3. **Eliminate** cases where a value would be **equal to itself**.

---

### Cartesian Join (Avoid)

- `Cartesian join / cross-join / Cartesian product`
  - returns **all possible combinations** of the two tables.
  - the **number of rows** in the result will be number of rows in table A **multiplied** by the number of rows in table B.
    - The result set is extremely huge, killing application performance.
    - As well, Cartesian products usually do not provide any useful information and quite often is considered a bug so they should be avoided.

---

- A Cartesian join happens when we do **not include a joining condition** (which fields / columns match in each of the 2 tables we’re joining) or, for Oracle database only, when the `CROSS JOIN` keywords are used.
- For example, let’s say we wanted to look at Product and Product Type information. We could create a SQL statement that looks like this:
