# Interface - Wk03

[Back](../../interface.md)

- [Interface - Wk03](#interface---wk03)
  - [Human to Computer Interfaces](#human-to-computer-interfaces)
    - [HCI Goals](#hci-goals)
    - [How does HCI work?](#how-does-hci-work)
    - [Methodologies – Activity Theory](#methodologies--activity-theory)
    - [User Centred Design](#user-centred-design)
    - [User Interface Design](#user-interface-design)
    - [Value Sensitive Design](#value-sensitive-design)
    - [Loop Interaction](#loop-interaction)

---

## Human to Computer Interfaces

- `Human-Computer Interaction (HCI)`

  - a field of **science that studies** the design and use of computer technology.
  - focus on **interfaces between people and computers** and **how** to design, evaluate, and implement interactive computer systems that satisfy the user.
  - **incorporates multiple disciplines**, such as computer science, psychology, human factors, and ergonomics, into one field.

- Important:

  - a good interface facilitates day-to-day activities.
  - **Poorly** designed human-machine interfaces can lead to many **unexpected problems.**

- Vs `User Experience (UX)` design

  - HCI: its main focus is academic
    - role of UX designers: **building** new human-focused applications, products or services
    - role of HCI practitioners: more concerned with the **research**.
  - HCI is focused mainly on **developing empirical understandings of users**, which can then help to inform the work of UX designers

- Without constant testing, polling, and data gathering, the concept of intuitive computer usability will stagnate

- Benefits

  - `Human-Computer Interaction` enables `UX` and **User Interface (UI) designers** all over the world to **produce better, more user-focused computers**, **helping every consumer** of that product or service.
  - making sure that computers are **designed for** successful and intuitive **human use**

- considerations
  - Fun/user **enjoyment**
  - **Well-being** (i.e. a device that enables addiction or simply creates too much dependency on it would be considered poor for a user’s well-being)
  - **Collective efficacy** (meaning that “the assurance a person places in his or her team affects the **team’s overall performance**”)
  - **Flow** (how users **make use** of and/or move through an interface)
  - Support for **human development**

---

### HCI Goals

- **Discover**
  - Methods for **designing** novel computer interfaces, thereby optimizing a design for a desired property such as, e.g., learnability or efficiency of use.
  - Methods for **implementing interfaces**, e.g., by means of software libraries.
  - Methods for **evaluating and comparing** interfaces with respect to their usability and other desirable properties.
  - Methods for **studying human computer use** and its sociocultural implications more broadly.
  - **Models and theories** of human computer use as well as conceptual frameworks for the design of computer interfaces, such as, e.g., cognitivist user models, Activity Theory or ethnomethodological (the study of how social order is produced in and through processes of social interaction) accounts of human computer use.
  - Perspectives that critically reflect upon the values that underlie computational design, computer use and HCI research practice.

---

### How does HCI work?

- HCI practitioners **observe** the ways in which people **interact** with computers and then design technologies to help them use computers more efficiently.
- The goal is to **minimize interaction cost** (the amount of physical and mental effort a user must exert when using the technology) and **make interactions more human**.
- A number of diverse methodologies outlining techniques for human–computer interaction design have emerged since the rise of the field in the 1980s. Most design methodologies stem from a model for how users, designers, and technical systems interact.

---

- Modern models tend to **focus on a constant feedback and conversation** between users, designers, and engineers and push for technical systems to be wrapped around the types of experiences users want to have.

---

### Methodologies – Activity Theory

- `Activity Theory`

  - Used in HCI to **define and study the context** in which human interactions with computers take place.
  - Activity theory provides:
    - **a framework to reason about actions** in these contexts,
    - **analytical tools** with the format of **checklists of items** that researchers should consider,
    - and **informs design** of interactions from an activity-centric perspective.

- `Activity`
  - an **interaction of the actor** (e.g., a human being) with the world.
- The `interaction` is described as a **process** relating the **subject (S)** and the **object (O)**.
- A common way to represent activity is “S ⇔ O”.
- There are two key aspects **differentiating** activity from other types of interaction:
  - (a) **subjects** of activities have **needs**, which should be **met through an interaction** with the world
  - (b) **activities** and their **subjects** **mutually determine one another**; or, more generally, activities are generative forces that transform both subjects and objects.

---

### User Centred Design

- `User-centered design (UCD)`
  - a modern, widely practiced design philosophy rooted in the idea that **users must take center-stage in the design** of any computer system.
- Users, designers and technical practitioners **work together** to **articulate** the wants, needs and limitations of the user and create a system that addresses these elements.
- Often, user-centered design projects are informed by ethnographic studies of the environments in which users will be interacting with the system.
- This practice is similar but not identical to **participatory design**, which emphasizes the possibility for end-users to contribute actively through shared design sessions and workshops.

---

### User Interface Design

- There are **seven principles** of user interface design that may be considered at any time during the design of a user interface in any order:
  - **Tolerance**
  - **Simplicity**
  - **Visibility**
  - **Affordance**(可供性)
  - **Consistency**
  - **Structure**
  - **feedback**

---

### Value Sensitive Design

- `Value Sensitive Design (VSD)`
  - a method for building technology that account for the **values of the people who use** the technology directly, as well as those **who the technology affects**, either directly or indirectly.
- VSD uses an **iterative design process** that involves three types of investigations:
  - **Conceptual**
    - aims at **understanding the various stakeholders** of the technology and the **impact** of that technology on the stakeholders
  - **Empirical**(实证)
    - design research studies used to understand the users’ values, needs, and practices
  - **Technical**
    - can involve either analysis of how people use related technologies, or the design of systems to support values identified in the conceptual and empirical investigations.

---

### Loop Interaction

- The **flow of information** between the human and computer is defined as the **loop of interaction**.
- The loop of interaction has several **aspects** to it
  - **Visual Based**:
    - The visual based human computer interaction is probably the **most widespread** area in HCI research.
  - **Audio Based**:
    - The audio based interaction between a computer and a human is another important area of in HCI systems.
    - This area deals with **information** acquired by **different audio signals**.
  - **Task environment**:
    - The **conditions** and **goals** set upon the **user**.
  - **Machine environment**:
    - The environment that the **computer is connected to**, e.g. a laptop in a college student’s dorm room.
  - **Areas of the interface**:
    - **Non-overlapping areas** involve processes of the human and computer not pertaining to their interaction.
    - Meanwhile, the overlapping areas only concern themselves with the processes pertaining to their interaction.
  - **Input flow**:
    - The **flow of information** that **begins** in the task environment, when the user has some task that requires using their computer.
  - **Output**:
    - The flow of information that **originates** in the machine environment.
  - **Feedback**:
    - **Loops** through the interface that evaluate, moderate, and confirm processes as they pass from the human through the interface to the computer and back.
  - **Fit**:
    - This is the match between the computer design, the user and the task to optimize the human resources needed to accomplish the task.
