# Data Tech: wk10

[Back](../data_tech.md)

- [Data Tech: wk10](#data-tech-wk10)
  - [SQL Functions](#sql-functions)
    - [String Function](#string-function)
      - [UPPER/LOWER](#upperlower)
      - [LTRIM/RTRIM](#ltrimrtrim)
      - [LEN](#len)
      - [SUBSTRING](#substring)
      - [CHARINDEX](#charindex)
      - [REPLICATE](#replicate)
      - [REPLACE \& TRANSLATE](#replace--translate)
    - [Date Function](#date-function)
      - [DATEPART](#datepart)
      - [DATEDIFF](#datediff)
      - [GETDATE](#getdate)
    - [ROUND](#round)
    - [ISNULL](#isnull)
    - [CASE](#case)
    - [FORMAT](#format)
      - [FORMAT Numbers](#format-numbers)
      - [FORMAT Dates](#format-dates)
      - [FORMAT Strings](#format-strings)
    - [TOP Clause](#top-clause)
  - [Aggregation](#aggregation)
    - [Aggregation in SQL](#aggregation-in-sql)
    - [SUM](#sum)
    - [AVG](#avg)
    - [COUNT](#count)
    - [MIN and MAX](#min-and-max)
    - [Summary](#summary)
  - [SQL Backup \& Recovery](#sql-backup--recovery)
    - [Full Backup](#full-backup)
    - [Differential Backup](#differential-backup)
    - [Transaction Log Backup](#transaction-log-backup)
    - [Recovery](#recovery)
      - [Full Recovery](#full-recovery)
      - [Simple Recovery](#simple-recovery)
    - [Tools](#tools)
    - [Scenarios](#scenarios)
    - [Best Practices](#best-practices)
    - [Summary: SQL Backup \& Recovery](#summary-sql-backup--recovery)

---

Understand purpose of functions in SQL
Look at examples of common functions including the function to format results
Model and practice SQL functions

## SQL Functions

- `SQL Functions`

  - **pre-defined operations** that perform **calculations**, **manipulate** data, or **return** specific values.
  - They can be used in SQL statements to modify or retrieve data, perform mathematical operations, manipulate strings, handle dates, and more.

- `Aggregate functions` perform **calculations** on a **set of values** and **return a single value**. (more on this in the next module)

- `String functions` manipulate and process **character strings**.
- `Date and time functions` manipulate and process **date** and **time** values.
- The SQL `FORMAT function` is used to **format the appearance** of a value based on a specified **format pattern**.

---

### String Function

#### UPPER/LOWER

- These functions (UPPER / LOWER) are used to:
  - **Simply convert to either all upper or lower case** for display purposes.
  - In the case of databases where the data is case-sensitive, to ensure condition in **WHERE clauses** ignore case differences.

```sql
SELECT
    id
    , UPPER(FirstName) AS "First Name"
    , LOWER(LastName) AS "Last Name"
FROM Customers;
```

---

#### LTRIM/RTRIM

- **Removes leading** (LTRIM) or **trailing** (RTRIM) from a string.

```sql
SELECT
    FirstName
    , CONCAT(LTRIM(FirstName), ' ', UPPER(LastName)) AS FullName
FROM Customers;
```

---

#### LEN

- Used to find the **length of a string**.

```sql
SELECT
    ID
    , LEN(LastName) AS "Length"
FROM Customers
WHERE LEN(LastName) > 5
ORDER BY "Length";
```

---

#### SUBSTRING

- Returns, from a string, **part of that string**.
- Syntax: `SUBSTRING(string, startPos, length)`
- For example, the Vendors table in our Labs database contains phone numbers, including area codes. We could use the SUBSTRING function to split PhoneNumber into two columns.

- 从 1 开始
- 第 3 个参数是子字符串的长度

```sql
-- substring
SELECT
    PhoneNumber
    , SUBSTRING(PhoneNumber, 1, 5) AS AreaCode
    , SUBSTRING(PhoneNumber, 6, 8) AS Phone
FROM Vendors
```

---

#### CHARINDEX

- **Searches for part** of a string within a string and, if the substring is found, **returns the position**. If it is not found, returns **zero**.
  Syntax: `CHARINDEX(substring, string, startPos)`
  For example, we could use CHARINDEX to determine the position of the brackets surrounding the area code in the PhoneNumber column:

```sql
SELECT
    PhoneNumber
    , CHARINDEX('(', PhoneNumber,1) AS LeftBraketPos
    , CHARINDEX(')', PhoneNumber,1) AS LeftBraketPos
FROM Vendors;

SELECT
    PhoneNumber
    , SUBSTRING(PhoneNumber, CHARINDEX('(', PhoneNumber,1), CHARINDEX(')', PhoneNumber,1)) AS AreaCode
FROM Vendors


SELECT
    PhoneNumber
    , SUBSTRING(PhoneNumber, CHARINDEX('(', PhoneNumber,1), CHARINDEX('>', PhoneNumber,1)) AS AreaCode
FROM Vendors

-- 第二个返回0， 所以第二列是空
```

---

#### REPLICATE

- **Repeats a string** a specific number of **times**.
- Syntax: `REPLICATE(string, integer)`
  - String: value to be repeated
  - Integer: the **number of times** to repeat the string

```sql
SELECT
    LastName
    , LastName + REPLICATE('*', 20-LEN(LastName)) AS "updateLastName"
FROM Customers;
```

---

#### REPLACE & TRANSLATE

Replace: 替代字符串
translate：替代单个字符
一一对应替换单个字符

- `REPLACE`

  - **Replaces a string** value with another string value.
  - It considers the **entire string only**, **not** the **individual** characters.
  - Syntax: `REPLACE(string, oldString, newString)`

- `TRANSLATE`
  - Translates one or more **character**(s) into one or more different **character**(s).
  - If there is more than one character, it will **replace the characters one by one**.
  - It will return an **error** if “oldCharacters” and “newCharacters” are **different lengths**.
  - Syntax: `TRANSLATE(string, oldCharacters, newCharacters)`

```sql
SELECT
    AreaCode
    , REPLACE(AreaCode, '529', '226')
    , TRANSLATE(AreaCode,'529', '226')
FROM Customers;
--519	519	216
--416	416	416
--604	604	604
--519	519	216
--613	613	613
--519	519	216

```

---

### Date Function

#### DATEPART

- **Extracts part** of a date from a date or datetime field.
- Syntax: `DATEPART(dateInterval, date)`
- DateInterval determines which **part** of the date you would like to extract, ie. “year”, “month”, day etc.

```sql
SELECT DATEPART(year, '2019-09-01');
-- 2019

SELECT DATEPART(day, '2025-09-01');
-- 1

```

---

#### DATEDIFF

- Determines the difference between two dates.
- Syntax: `DATEDIFF(dateInterval, date1, date2)`
- DateInterval determines what the **difference** will be measured.
  - Ie. If you set the interval to “day”, DATEDIFF will return how many days between the 2 dates.

```sql
/* For example, this SELECT would return the value 1 */
SELECT DATEDIFF(day, '2019-09-01', '2019-09-02');

SELECT DATEDIFF(day, '2025-09-01', '2019-10-22');
-- -2141


SELECT DATEDIFF(HOUR, '2025-09-01', '2025-09-02');
-- 24
```

---

#### GETDATE

- Gets the **current date** and time from the system.
- Can be used anytime you need to refer to the current date / time instead of a date in your database.
- Example: `SELECT GETDATE();`

```sql
SELECT GETDATE();
-- 2025-03-18 20:07:40.030
```

---

### ROUND

- **Rounds numeric values** to a set number of **decimal places**.
- Depending on arguments passed into function, will either round values up or simply truncate decimal places (no rounding).
- Syntax: `ROUND(number, decimals, operation)`
  - **Number** – number to be rounded.
  - **Decimals** – **number of decimal places** to round number to
  - **Operation** – this is an optional parameter.
    - If it is set to `0`, number is rounded to the number of decimals.
      - Default value is 0 (round value to **nearest decimal**).
    - If it is set to 1, the result is **not rounded**, instead it **truncates** results to the number of decimal places indicated.
      - By truncating we mean the **simply drop the extra decimal places**, if any, but the rest of the number does not change.

```sql

SELECT
    Name
    , RetailPrice
    , ROUND(RetailPrice,0)
    , ROUND(RetailPrice,0, 1)
FROM Products;
-- Batting Glove	15.99	16.00	15.00
-- Baseball Bat	    38.00	38.00	38.00

```

---

### ISNULL

- **Substitutes** a value for a **NULL value** if it exists.
- Syntax: `ISNULL(expression, value)`
  - Expression – **expression** or **value** to be tested for a null value (ie. a column name).
  - Value – the value to return if expression is NULL.
- Example, if the WebSiteURL column has a NULL value we replace it with a blank instead:

```sql

SELECT
    WebURL
    , ISNULL(WebURL, 'no website')
FROM Vendors

-- http://www.easton.ca	http://www.easton.ca
-- NULL	                no website
```

---

### CASE

- Allows conditional statements within a SELECT to allow you to display one of two different values **depending on the condition**.
- Syntax: `CASE WHEN condition THEN valueIfConditionIsTrue ELSE valueIfConditionIsFalse END`
  - The condition itself can be any **valid condition** (ie. OrderDate > '2019-10-01') but in the example below we will be checking to see if ShipDate IS NULL, to determine status of orders – either Ordered or Shipped.

```sql
SELECT
    ShipDate
    , CASE WHEN ShipDate IS NOT NULL THEN 'shipped' ELSE 'ordered' END AS Status
FROM Orders;
-- 2019-12-10	shipped
-- 2019-12-11	shipped
-- NULL	        ordered
-- NULL	        ordered
```

---

### FORMAT

- Allows **formatting** of date/time and numeric values in a SELECT clause.

- Syntax: `FORMAT(value, format, culture)`
  - **Value** – value to be formatted.
  - **Format** – the **format pattern** to apply.
  - **Culture** – this is an **optional** parameter.
    - If used, it specifies a **culture**.
    - For example, if you specified '`en-US`' in this parameter it would apply the format for “US English” culture setting.

---

#### FORMAT Numbers

- When formatting numbers, the format pattern determines the appearance of the number.
- Common format patterns include:
- `0`: Display a **digit** (leading zeros are **included**).
- `#`: Display a **digit** (leading zeros are **omitted**).
- `.`: **Decimal** separator.
- `,`: **Thousands** separator.
- `%`: Display as a **percentage**.
- `E`: Display as **scientific notation**.
- `C`: Display as **currency**.

```sql

SELECT FORMAT(12345.6789, '#,##0.00') AS formatted_number;
-- 12,345.68
```

---

#### FORMAT Dates

- When formatting dates, the format pattern determines the appearance of the date.
- Common format patterns include:
  - `YYYY`: Four-digit year.
  - `MM`: Two-digit month.
  - `DD`: Two-digit day.
  - `HH`: Two-digit hour (**24-hour format**).
  - `MI`: Two-digit minute.
  - `SS`: Two-digit second.

```sql
SELECT FORMAT(GETDATE(), 'MM/DD/YYYY') AS formatted_date;
-- 06/25/2023
```

---

#### FORMAT Strings

- When formatting strings, the format pattern determines the appearance of the string.
- Common format patterns include:
  - `U`: Convert the string to **uppercase**.
  - `L`: Convert the string to **lowercase**.
  - `C`: **Capitalize** the first letter of each word.

```sql
SELECT FORMAT('hello world', 'U') AS formatted_string;
-- HELLO WORLD
```

---

### TOP Clause

- Will **limit the number of records** returned.
- As with some of our functions, this clause is not available in some other databases (although most will have a similar functionality via different clause or keyword(s)).
- Syntax: `SELECT TOP numRows  columnNames`

```sql
SELECT
    TOP numRow columnName
FROM tableName;
```

---

Understand what Aggregation is
Review Aggregation in Excel
Translate that knowledge to SQL
Model and practice SQL aggregation

## Aggregation

- `Aggregation`

  - the process of **combining data into a single value** based on a specific criterion.

- In Excel, aggregation functions are used to perform **calculations** on a range of data and **summarize** the results.

- Common Aggregation
  - SUM
  - AVERAGE
  - COUNT
  - MIN
  - MAX

---

### Aggregation in SQL

- `Aggregation in SQL`

  - the process of **applying mathematical or statistical functions** to **groups** of data to **generate** summary results.

- It allows for the **calculation** of totals, averages, counts, maximums, minimums, and other aggregate values from a set of rows in a database table.

---

### SUM

- calculates the sum of a column's values within a group.
- used to **find the total of numeric values** in a column.

```sql
SELECT SUM(quantity)
FROM sales;
```

---

### AVG

- calculates the **average value** of a column within a group.
- It provides the **arithmetic mean** of the values.

```sql
SELECT AVG(price) as "Average Price"
FROM Sales;
```

---

### COUNT

- counts the **number of rows** or **non-null values** within a group.
- It is used to determine the **total count of rows** or distinct values in a column.

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) AS "Total sales"
FROM sales;
```

---

### MIN and MAX

- The MIN function returns the minimum value within a group.
- The MAX function returns the maximum value within a group.
- They are used to find the **minimum** and **maximum** values in a column.

```sql
SELECT
    MAX(price) AS "Highest Price"
    , MIN(price) AS "Lowest Price"
FROM sales;
```

---

### Summary

- Aggregation applying **mathematical or statistical functions** to groups of data.

- Common aggregation functions include `SUM`, `AVG`, `COUNT`, `MIN`, and `MAX`.

---

Understand why we need to be concerned about backup & recovery
Understand different types of backups and log files
Strategize and model how to complete SQL Backup & Recovery

## SQL Backup & Recovery

- Backup and recovery are crucial components of a comprehensive **database management strategy**.

- They help **protect** data from **accidental loss**, **hardware failures**, **software errors**, and other **unforeseen events**.

- By creating backups and implementing recovery **plans**, organizations can **minimize downtime** and ensure **data integrity**.

---

### Full Backup

- A `full backup` captures **a complete copy** of the **entire database** at a specific **point in time**.

- It includes all the **data**, **objects**, and **configurations** necessary to restore the database to its original state.

---

### Differential Backup

- A `differential backup` captures only the **changes** that occurred **since the last** `full backup`.

- It provides a **faster backup process** but **requires** both the `full backup` and the **most recent** `differential backup` for restoration.

---

### Transaction Log Backup

- A `transaction log backup` captures the **changes** made to the database since the **last** `transaction log backup`.

- It allows for **point-in-time recovery** and helps ensure **data consistency**.

---

### Recovery

#### Full Recovery

- The `Full Recovery` Model requires **regular** `full backups`, **periodic** `differential backups`, and **frequent** `transaction log backups`.

- It provides the **most comprehensive recovery options** but requires **more storage space** and backup resources.

---

#### Simple Recovery

- The `Simple Recovery` Model requires **only** **regular** `full backups`.

- It offers **limited** recovery **options** and does **not support** `point-in-time recovery` using transaction logs.

---

### Tools

- `SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)` provides a **graphical interface** for managing backups and restores.
- ``SQL Server Agent` allows for **scheduling** automated backups.

- Various **third-party tools** offer advanced backup and recovery features, including **compression**, **encryption**, and **cloud** integration.

---

### Scenarios

- `Point-in-time recovery` restores a database to a specific moment in time using `full backups` and `transaction log backups`.

- `Disaster recovery` involves **restoring the entire database** infrastructure in the event of a catastrophic failure.
  - It typically includes **restoring** backups on a **different server** or location.

---

### Best Practices

- **Regularly schedule backups** according to the organization's `Recovery Point Objective (RPO)` and `Recovery Time Objective (RTO)`.

- **Test** backups **regularly** to ensure their integrity and accessibility.

- **Store** backups in secure, **offsite** locations to protect against physical damage or theft.

---

### Summary: SQL Backup & Recovery

- Backup and recovery are **critical** for safeguarding data and **ensuring business continuity**.

- Different backup **types**, **strategies**, and **tools** are available to meet specific needs.

- Regular **testing** and adherence to **best practices** are essential for a reliable backup and recovery solution.
