# Securing Servers - Wk01

[Back](../index.md)

- [Securing Servers - Wk01](#securing-servers---wk01)
  - [Security Principles and Standards](#security-principles-and-standards)
    - [Server Compliancy with Government Regulations](#server-compliancy-with-government-regulations)
  - [Servers Compliancy with Corporate Policy](#servers-compliancy-with-corporate-policy)
    - [Management Practices](#management-practices)
    - [Organizational environment \& Security hierarchy](#organizational-environment--security-hierarchy)
  - [Why is Business Needs Analysis so critical?](#why-is-business-needs-analysis-so-critical)
  - [Server Security Planning](#server-security-planning)
    - [Threats and Risks](#threats-and-risks)
    - [The IT Security Plan](#the-it-security-plan)
    - [Server Vulnerabilities](#server-vulnerabilities)
    - [Goals of specific Server Security](#goals-of-specific-server-security)
  - [What are the current industry security standards?](#what-are-the-current-industry-security-standards)
    - [Virtual Environment Software](#virtual-environment-software)

---

## Security Principles and Standards

- `Principle of Least Privilege`

  - No object should have more authority than it is absolutely necessary to do it’s job.
  - Applies to People (Users and Admins), Groups, OUs, Networks, Protocols, Devices, Appliances, Virtual constructs, Databases, Federations, Servers and Servers Applications.
  - **Servers** are the **hardest** to bring into compliance.

- `CIA`

  - Confidentiality: Provided by **Encryption**
  - Integrity: Provided by **Hashing**
  - Authorization Provided by **Authentication**

- `AAA`
  - Authenticate, Authorize, Account

---

### Server Compliancy with Government Regulations

- **Private Sector** Liability Protection

  - Personal Privacy Law – Everyone, employees, clients.
    - `PIPEDA` (Canada) Sarbanes-Oxley, `HIPPA`, (US)
  - Financial Regulation
  - Payment Card Industry (PCI)
  - Regulated Industry Specific – Product Safety, Quality requirements
    - e.g. ISO 9000– ISO 27000 testing, compliance
  - Key Issues:
    - Loss of Intellectual Property / Patents / Blueprints. Breach can cause loss of Business credibility.

- **Public Sector** – Fines, De-Licencing, Criminal charges

  - Government Agencies, Citizen data.
    - E.g. Tax, Courts, Medical, Pension, Social Services, e.g. FISMA compliance.
  - Public Safety:
    - Police, Military, Intelligence Agencies, Diplomatic services: Secret data e.g. Methods and sources. Member roles & identities, Investigations, Informants, Witness Protection Programs, Arrests, charges, conviction records
  - Cyber warfare: State actors are the most skilled attackers.
  - IT Security regulations for agencies: e.g. SCAP

- Issues for all:
  - Secure Data location laws & transit disclosure / visibility to foreign powers. - Cloud and SP may elude geolocation to stay within borders – foreign access legislation – e.g. PIPEDA vs. Patriot Act on cross-border data exposure and encryption.

---

## Servers Compliancy with Corporate Policy

- **Voluntarily Imposed Policy**: Environmental, public welfare,
- **Environmental “green” policies** – can affect system and cooling power limitations, alternative sources, equipment disposal and recycling rules,
- **Health and safety** regs can complicate physical server / data centre security for fire or injury visibility, too many keyholders.

---

### Management Practices

- The Threat of Under budgeting IT and Security operations creates risks of all kinds,

  - **legacy** equipment and software support
  - lack of **training** for SysAdmins
  - Eventually causes outsized **Outsourcing**, which can increase contractor physical access needs
  - Increases incident **response times**.
  - Extends problem resolution time which causes longer and more severe **outages**

- Senior Management must understand and support security awareness and employee training across the enterprise

---

### Organizational environment & Security hierarchy

- The Forbes “Best Managed Company” list usually identifies **org structure** as a key success variable (if it is diligently adhered to)
- Some key points that identify well run IT infrastructures are:
  - IT Admin and Security Admin have the same **reporting structures** (boss).
  - CISO **should report to CEO** as equal to other senior leadership positions, not to CTO or CIO or COO.
  - This insures that both roles are collaborative in mutual support and urgent needs are understood by all departments all the time. This avoids Management “Silos” and allows for healthy co-dependency.
  - Different reporting structures will **cause friction at the Finance and Operations** areas and will silo with non-collaborative (or even unhealthy) competition for Resources and Recognition.
  - Minimize any operational **overlap** with **clear** process (SOP) and mandatory problem reporting for IT Ops and IT Security. Both must be required to report on shortfalls in either area.
  - Security is not merely an afterthought of IT, it is **central and planned equally**. All departments are reliant on the other for proper functionality.

---

## Why is Business Needs Analysis so critical?

- Every org is **unique**
- Tech is ever **changing**
- Specific solutions to current **vulnerabilities**
- Security supports the org mission
- Planning must be current
- **Ongoing adaptability** required, but is not natural to homo sapiens.

  - “If it isn’t broke, don’t fix it”
  - “That’s my job, not yours”
  - “These problems are securities fault”

- **Social structures** that we can see in networking today:
  - Centralization / Decentralization
    - E.g. Monarchy or democracy
  - Layers in models
    - E.g. Castes – layers of importance
  - Specialization – appliances, certifications
    - E.g. Professions and specialties
  - Silos – immoveable places of function (ossification)
    - E.g. Bureaucracy entrenched in government
- Usually results in increased and unnecessary complexity and becomes inefficient and contentious.
- **Interoperability** is not organic. Roles must be adhered to.
- Security Admins, need to cross boundaries and join silos

---

- Corporate IT culture determines what it needs and wants, ie: what is the boundary of any given product or specialty.
- Networking’s Hierarchy of **needs**:
  - Connectivity
  - Security
  - Groups (collaboration)
  - Engagement
  - Creativity and innovation
- **Servers deliver all needs!**

---

## Server Security Planning

- **Component** should always be part of the overall organizational security plan or Business Continuity Plan
- IT systems should also be in the **Risk Analysis & Remediation** audit (usually by a third paty) > **reccomendations** found here may be a critical task if the organization needs to be in compliance

---

### Threats and Risks

- `Threat`: 不可避免的
  - The **unavoidable** occurrence that originates certain Risks. (eg:Storm, Theft)
- `Risk`: An **avoidable** and **recoverable** incident of loss, **identified in Planning** 可避免可恢复的
- **Many** `Risks` will be caused by **one** `Threat`
- The **same** `risks` can be produced from **many** different `threats`.

---

### The IT Security Plan

- Provides details of:

  - What will be **done**
  - What **resources** are needed
  - **Who** is responsible
  - Goal is to **detail the actions** needed to improve the identified deficiencies in the risk profile

- Should include

  - Risks, recommended controls, action priority
  - Selected controls, resources needed
  - Responsible personnel, implementation dates
  - Maintenance requirements

- Risk assessments
- Implementation

  - IT security plan documents:
    - What needs to be **done** for each selected control
    - **Personnel** responsible
    - **Resources** and **time** frame
  - Identified **personnel**:
    - Implement new or enhanced controls
    - May need system configuration changes, upgrades or new system installation
    - May also involve development of new or extended procedures
    - Need to be encouraged and monitored by management
  - When implementation is completed, management **authorizes** the system for operational use

---

### Server Vulnerabilities

- **Physical threats**
  - PC **location** security
  - **Failed** infrastructure
  - **Human** Error
- **Logical threats**
  - Attacks (**hacking**)
  - **Malware**
  - **Loss** of Network
  - **Human** Error
- CIO Magazine: 70% of Class 1 outages can be traced back to **Human Error**

---

### Goals of specific Server Security

- Have a **Security Plan**
- **Maintain** user / process **functionality**
- Be p**hysically safe**: Containment (Data Center, locks, fire)
- Does not compromise other systems
- Avoid / recover **attacks**
- Be **self-healing** and adaptive to disruption
- **Reports and logs** all out-of-band issues
- **Protect** data at all costs
- May slow down, but can’t go down.
- Prefer **down-time** over loss of control or data.

---

## What are the current industry security standards?

- ISO 27000 series
- Certification specific lists
- `NIST` / `NSA` regulations
- Vendor specific lists
- Privacy Regulations
- Business Continuity planning efforts

---

### Virtual Environment Software

- Computer Hardware **Virtualization**
- Largest Vendors by market share:

  - `VMWare` - Desktop, Server, Data Center, Cloud
  - `Microsoft` – Server, Data Center, Cloud
  - `Citrix` - Cloud
  - `RedHat` - Open Systems
  - `Oracle` - Data Center, Cloud
  - `Amazon` - Cloud
  - `Google` - Cloud

- Other markets identified:
- Network Virtualization (Network over physical)
- Network Function Virtualization (NV + Software)
- Mobile Virtualization (BYOD, Very Thin Client)

---

[TOP](#securing-servers---wk01)
