# Securing Servers - Wk02

[Back](../index.md)

- [Securing Servers - Wk02](#securing-servers---wk02)
  - [Server Design](#server-design)
    - [Physical Server Security](#physical-server-security)
    - [BIOS \& Firmware. Updates \& Passwords](#bios--firmware-updates--passwords)
    - [UEFI – The secure boot process](#uefi--the-secure-boot-process)
  - [The Data Center](#the-data-center)
  - [Cluster vs. Monolithic Serving Methods](#cluster-vs-monolithic-serving-methods)
    - [XaaS and Service Providers](#xaas-and-service-providers)
    - [The Cloud](#the-cloud)
  - [Primary OS Functionality and default states](#primary-os-functionality-and-default-states)
  - [Checklists \& Baselines for Secure OS Roll-outs](#checklists--baselines-for-secure-os-roll-outs)
  - [S.W.O.T.](#swot)

---

## Server Design

- Just another PC (?)
  - Yes, Servers are PCs too.
  - Network Operating Systems started moving from **mainframe computers** to **PCs dedicated as Severs** in the mid 1980’s.
  - At first servers were just local file / print controllers, then mainframe database front end controllers for the new GUI users.
  - Eventually servers running the NOS became the main network hosts running all the applications to distributed Desktop PC users, now called a `LAN`.
- Once the **client / server model** of computing was entrenched, `mainframes` were slowly retired and **PC Servers** became the only **Host controllers** to the clients and were being designed to be as fast and reliable as the “heavy iron” had been with terminals.
- Now servers are powerful PCs with components and configurations to meet the needs of the **LANs / WANs.**

- **BCM & Server Security Plan**

  - `Business Continuity Management (BCM)`
    - the organizational practice of doing things in a way that **avoided costly outages (down time)** and provided processes to **recover** quickly if an outage still occurred.
    - This is applied to all business operations, but is especially important for IT services that sustain all operational units.
    - **Servers hardware** is designed to meet a much higher operating standard than Client PCs, including redundant processors, Error Correcting RAM (ECC), disks in arrays (RAID) and dual power supplies. These are now powered by battery backed power supplies (UPS).
  - The **IT Security Plan** should be a component of any good **BCM** process.

### Physical Server Security

- Rack mountable heavy steel cases
- Standard 19” wide x nRU (Rack Units high)
- Each RU is 1.75 inches H x 19.5 inches W
- Cylinder Locks on:
  - Case Cover
  - Front Panel
  - Disk trays (if not secured by Front Panel)
- Bolt Server into Rack
  - Use a cabinet rack provides a door & lock
- Racks should be in a secure room / data center with least access and 2FA.
- Server Room is equipped with a monitored & alarmed security system for video recording and motion detection.

### BIOS & Firmware. Updates & Passwords

- The `Basic Input Output System` has the initial program that any PC runs when booting from a shutdown or restart state.
  - This start program is located in a `Read Only Memory (ROM)` chip
  - This is always the **first** location that a `PC Processor (CPU)` looks for when powering up and it runs the `BIOS` initializing program to discover the resources available in the PC – an inventory of hardware for the CPU to use.
    - Examples would be the video adapter & display mode and the main `Random Access Memory (RAM)`.
  - Most importantly, the BIOS routine directs the CPU to the `hard drive(s)` that the CPU can access to load an `operating system (OS)` into RAM and begin running the `core of the OS (kernel)`.
  - The **kernel** sets-up the rest of the functions of an operating PC in order to run programs.
- At this point, the BIOS waits for a new restart. The **BIOS user selectable settings** are stored on battery backed memory that the user can modify to change the system, this controls are accessed by a key stroke in the boot process – this is the “System Setup”.

- PC components may have their own `BIOS ROM` so that the `system BIOS` does not need to be updated for these parts to function. Once running, the OS can use **“driver’” code** to enhance or even replace a devices BIOS information.
  - `Video cards` use a driver to access features.
- All of these `BIOS ROMs` that make up the inventory of hardware in a PC are re-programmable in an offline “Flash” process that updates the BIOS routines with new code to fix problems or add features at boot.
- The **system BIOS** and any **other BIOS ROMS** in a computer are know as `“Firmware”` – as this is a **combination of Hardware and Software**.
  - Servers have **more** firmware than client PCs and need BIOS setup and boot protection to keep correct settings.
- The **main systems BIOS user setup** has one or more **levels of security** in the form of **Passwords** that can be set by the **server administrator** to restrict any other person from changing the setup, and taking control of the server. This prevents a **hardware attack**.

---

### UEFI – The secure boot process

- New attacks have found ways to **insert viruses into the BIOS firmware** and the Master Boot Record on the HDD of the OS.
  - These “root kits” are difficult to remove and usually require the **erasure** of all disk and memory requiring full server rebuilds.
- `Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI)` was originally was an enhancement to the BIOS (compatibility mode), but has evolved into a replacement for “legacy” BIOS & CMOS.
- **`UEFI`**
  - is an abstraction layer that provides a GUI like application **interface** for hardware **controls and adds** additional custom config & hardware support.
  - The U**EFI ”Secure Boot” process** is supported by the OS and prevents recurrent infection and new standards in the OS and hardware (e.g. **`Trusted Platform Module - TPM`**) encrypts the processes and alerts against extra code e.g. root kit infections.
  - Intel has introduced on CPU security “Pluton”
- Supports for more configurable security options like **advanced passwords**, and **audit modules** that scan hardware allows higher resource utilization and can be updated like OS based anti-malware software.
- `UEFI` must be kept **updated** for integrity.

---

## The Data Center

- Nothing else has increased the high availability needs of the server than professionally a**rchitected and service rich data centers (DC)**
- Whether for internal hardware or for outsourcing, the server investments of today demand the available redundancy and diversity of **fail-over** at scale and the physical and logical security measures that are concentrated by a high density core installation in dedicated space.
- **Power and cooling systems** in the data center require fail-overs to meet the uptime needs of the equipment nd the knowledge of professional maintenance and data backup / restore capabilities.

- These systems must also be sufficiently **redundant and diverse** as the computing needs.
  - This demands that the Data Centre must always **have dedicated and compete control of these systems** in addition to **UPS / generator supply** to insure fail-over of clean power and sufficient cooling to ride through potentially catastrophic events without loss.
  - At no time should these systems be exposed to outside use or interference of the operations by the rest of the organization or by the landlords of the buildings.
- The **DC centralization of infrastructure** is a significant **cost savings advantage** for public and private Cloud installations for Service Providers and organizations alike, especially as virtualization makes the geographic location less relevant once the physical equipment is acquired, properly serviced and securely housed.
- Using both **private** and **public** cloud infrastructure together is known as `Hybrid`

---

- Server Care and Feeding

  - **Cabling systems** carefully bundled and clear of pinch points at the rear of the rack and at the seams of floor tiles.
  - Power distribution, redundant power supplies from **diverse sources**.
  - Security and fire control systems operated separately form any surrounding systems.

---

## Cluster vs. Monolithic Serving Methods

- There are 2 **methodologies to implementing** physical servers and each method has positive and negative aspects that help determine the method for the task. Both can be used in the Data Center concurrently.
- Using a **single large scalable server** is chosen for hosting a **single critical application** for many users. This `“monolith” server` is usually provided and maintained by the manufacturer, similar to a mini or mainframe System. It is also referred to as a “`Blade or Chassis”`
- Taking many small, entry level servers and linking them together to provide a **large modular system** is known as a `“cluster”`. It is commonly assembled by the local IT team who assume responsibility for the services and the maintenance of the cluster. This method can is similar to grouping a large number of hard drives together in a Redundant Array of disks

---

### XaaS and Service Providers

- Almost all **server installations** are running in the data center
- Organizations are more comfortable using outsourced Data centers more tha ever.
- Using the ubiquitous web browser as the client end point, Service Providers have been able touse server clusters to provide hosted application clusters that can be “virtually” allocated to a customer to provide the correct amount of CPU cycles and disk space.
- Most IT operations can be outsourced and provided on a use cost basis (metering). Hosting platforms have emerged that can allow a SP to provide a wide array of IT services to an organization. When the infrastructure is managed in a SP remote data center the Admins can focus on product t\delivery to their internal “clients” and so the “product / application becomes the service internally in practical terms.
- This suite of SP capabilities originally started as separate and simple services such as disk storage and remote data backup targets across encrypted connections, vastly improving the risk of localized disasters to production data. This follows BCM data security procedures to insure that data loss is confined to one location and can be restored quickly.
- With **cross-platform virtualization**, almost any operational IT function can be provided this way. These have become known as the “\_AAS” referring to a function outsourced as a SP and delivered as though it was local. Some examples of this are :
  - `Software as a service (SaaS)`, `Platform as a service (PaaS)`, `Network as a Service (NaaS)` `Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas)` and now available is `Everything as a Service (XaaS)` which is the SP capturing much of traditional in-house operations (networking, virtualization, monitoring). Even IoT platforms are controlled in a fee-for-service model.

---

### The Cloud

- Many organizations **can not outsource all** of their data functions to a SP for security or regulatory reasons. When outsourcing even a non- critical part of IT, the split environment is referred to asa `“Hybrid Cloud”`.
- When SP services are accessed solely through Internet connections and user browser access from any location is enabled, the services become location independent and indistinguishable from locally hosted services. A colloquial term of “The Cloud” became the catch- all description of Internet only remote services provisioning. Internet- only accessed SPs are now known as `“Cloud Providers”`.
- When locally provisioned services are also limited to internet-only user access, a `“Private Cloud”` is created. Using both external and internal hosted services at once now becomes the Hybrid Cloud environment. The one thing that will remain in the hands of System Admins for now is the more complex security audits and hardening a Hybrid infrastructure for critical IT functions.

---

## Primary OS Functionality and default states

- Server operating systems from the major vendors have much in common.
  - Networks are organized by Domains and most hosts are participating in the Domain(s) that they are part of and others that they are providing services for. They also need to connect reliably, perform user authentication and/or provide host services on the network as well as support `Remote access services (RAS)` to allow for offsite administration.
- Server OS’s used to ship with many of these roles turned on by default and had some or all of these roles activated on install.
  - In addition the Firewall was only generically configured leaving that for the admin to customize.
  - Today this **“time-saving” default setup** has largely been replaced by **default installs** that largely unpack without roles set at all. Hacking and malware attacks are constantly scanning for an under-configured OS. **Standard practices of these basic setup steps** are provided in the way of **“Checklists”** by many vendors and security organizations and form the framework of the server hardening process. When installation of a new server with a certain config becomes common in a firm, the required setup is documented and tested and then adopted by IT management with approval then distributed internally to the IT staff.
- **Non-vendor specific checklists** are also provided by government agencies whose role is to set a standard for cybersecurity efforts internationally to assist in training and process development for the IT industry as a whole. These documents are termed **“best practices”** and remain reasonably high level based on common security concepts so as to still have value for some time. Once government organization that does examine and provide OS specific checklists is the NSA / NIST cybersecurity consortium. These can be an excellent resource for practical application when building out IT infrastructure.

## Checklists & Baselines for Secure OS Roll-outs

- Since we will be working in the labs with Windows Server 2016 and RedHat Linux Server, we-will want to examine these guides for processes that students can include in their installs and identify role specific actions that will specifically apply to their needs.
  - Once configured, you will use the `MS Compliance Toolkit` to **take a “Baseline” snapshot** of the new default config. This can then be compared to the OS vendors provided baselines for the specific OS and it’s role(s) and look for variations between the two
  - This process may alert you to additional steps that should be taken, tested and documented to modify the standard checklist with our own steps that is needed for our server to be “hardened” for our Lab environment and network so that we can spend less time when we need a fresh server install.
  - The current checklists for Server 2016 and RedHat Server will be provided in the Labs.

---

## S.W.O.T.

- The SWOT method of problem analysis is taught in many fields of study and career training.
- `SWOT` stands for `Strengths`, `Weaknesses`, `Opportunities` and `Threats` and this 4-way cube analysis uses the balanced categories, personal and business priorities and facts that we know plus a bit of common sense, it can assist in consideration of the 4 factors for any situation to come to a decision.
- Even acknowledging that we don’t know something we should about the problem adds weighting to Weakness or Threat quadrants to help coming to a conclusion. This process can be used for deciding on everything from a corporate merger to the decision to marry someone! (true story!)

---

- To try to determine the suitability of a specific server config, you will SWOT each of the following:
  - You need to decide on which **server** you will analyze, and detail why it is selected it, and what its importance is to the organization
  - Then detail the server’s **security requirements**, identifying:
    - The **suitability of the build** based on the checklist, such as -
      - what **information** it contains, and how sensitive that information is
      - what **applications** it runs, how it manipulates the information stored, and how critical the availability need is (uptime).
      - **who** has access to the system, and what type of access they have
      - who has **administrative** access to the system, and how this is controlled
      - what change management procedures are used to manage its **configuration**

---

[TOP](#securing-servers---wk02)
