# Securing Servers - Wk03

[Back](../index.md)

- [Securing Servers - Wk03](#securing-servers---wk03)
  - [OS becomes the “server”](#os-becomes-the-server)
  - [Installation / Sandboxing Opportunities](#installation--sandboxing-opportunities)
  - [Post Installations – Server Hardening](#post-installations--server-hardening)
  - [Patching and Updates](#patching-and-updates)
  - [Malware Protection](#malware-protection)
  - [The Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP)](#the-principle-of-least-privilege-polp)
  - [File and Volume Encryption](#file-and-volume-encryption)
  - [BCM \& Server Environment - Review](#bcm--server-environment---review)

---

## OS becomes the “server”

- The OS becomes the “server”
- The Client-Server model of modern computing is well entrenched.
  - From a user perspective, the server provides the application access required to satisfy the application **requests from the clients**.
- With multi purpose hardware running virtualization of Operating Systems (OS) and Application layers, and the push of this model to Cloud Computing, it is inevitable that the **actual computer hardware **used at any given time becomes **harder to identify**.
  - Differentiating the hardware from the application needs of both client & server is now required today.
- `Data Centers` that are responsible for the highly available infrastructure of hardware assets are still critical, but are more disengaged from the specific service(s) provided. **System Administrators** take on the services role and can be **remotely** located.

---

- The `Operating Systems` that are driving the computing model are clearly the identifier for the needed services.
  - The focus on security is mostly **split** between the “Platform” of OS / Application and the physical infrastructure underneath.
- The `OS` and `applications` then is the critical factor in securing “the servers” from most threats.

  - This has made the **operating platform management** almost entirely **separate** from the **infrastructure supporting** it.
  - Since “the server” is identifiable mainly by it’s **role** rather than it's location, the OS / app stack becomes the “server” for allintents and purposes.
  - Server security then becomes a mostly **software and policy settings** hardening and maintenance process.

- Server OS’s used to be one size fits all, only a few Editions were available and they came with many common roles pre-activated to ease adoption and installation.
  - Hardening was an **afterthought**, until systems came under attack.
- Server OS’s are now sold and distributed with **Specific Editions** in many Versions tailored to meet the most common specific needs.
  - These are sold with most roles **disabled** and are **hardened** for specific roles in advance of deployment. (see the Principle of Least Privilege)
- OS Manufacturers take and provide **`Baselines`** of these versions. These are **snaphots of the configuration and policy settings** that are provided as well tested starting point, and also a reference for future fixes or changes.

  - They also provide a path back to the default state if needed.

- In addition, many security organizations provide **`Checklists`** for admins to examine to further harden the server OS environment, the system functions, users permissions and applications present and those in use.
- Server admins are encouraged to **customize** systems by following `checklists`, and further optimize settings to meet security goals.
  - Once the server setup is secure and operating properly, new Baselines should be taken and be referenced to specific installs for quickly understanding the settings and policy functions now in place.
  - These provide continuity of approach and also form the basis of discovery should threats appear or new roles be required.

---

- `BCM` theory sets at it’s heart that continuity of the business is achieved through “`**High Availability**`”, a state of systems that utilize all available means to **continue to operate**, even in disastrous circumstances.
- In computing systems, `High Availability` is usually a product of implementing both **Redundancy** of hardware and **Diversity** of data path to achieve reliable “`Fail-over`”, where secondary hardware and/ or a new path for data **will continue operations** and has the best chance for not succumbing to the same risk as the primary systems did. Some degradation of performance that may occur when fail-over to secondary happens is preferable to complete system outage.
- `The common description used in designing cost effective fail-over is “it’s OK to slow down, just not to GO down”

---

- In server security, the process of implementing `fail-over` must be **examined** for unintentional exposure of data to visibility, corruption and leakage (CIA).
  - Corporate Risk Management practitioners categorize all **pre-risk operational methods** as “ `**Disaster Avoidance**`”.
  - Incident Management still mandates Planning for outages and provisioning for returning to operation, even in a total loss situation (post-risk).
  - The traditional term for preparing for and returning to operational service is “`Disaster Recovery`”.
- Studies show that consistent implementation of `Disaster voidance` techniques require at least 75% of cost and time of fail-over measures be dedicated to High Availability.
  - This focus can greatly **reduce costly downtime**, requiring only **25%of** costs and planning for Disaster Recovery.
  - Worst case scenario's still must be considered in mapping out a risk control strategy for events that are beyond human control.

---

- One of the key goals in BCM processes is to **eliminate any** `'single point of failure' (SPoF)`
- In all cases the Security professional should strive to **reduce the known exposures and weaknesses** inherent in all IT systems.
  - Reducing opportunities for attack through known vulnerabilities and good practice is crucial to **shrinking the “Attack Surface”** presented to threats outside the network.
- A multi-layer approach of maintaining timely application of patches, updates and anti-malware signatures preserves an attack surface with a minimal risk profile.
- When implemented correctly and with a proven prevention record, all these measures contribute to the organizations IT infrastructure and data as being a “`Hard Target`”

---

## Installation / Sandboxing Opportunities

- `Checklists` – process based
  - OS **Manufacturers**
    - Clients, Main Servers, DCs,
  - Utility **Vendors**
  - **Public** Sector Standards
- `Baselines` – **comparison** based, versioning
  - OS Manufacturers
    - Clients, Main Servers, Data Center / core / cluster
  - Application Vendors
  - Posted by users, vendor blogs, guidances
  - Implemented with PowerShell scripts

---

## Post Installations – Server Hardening

- `Checklists`
  - MS – Windows, by Edition
  - Linux Server Distros, Ubuntu, Red Hat
  - Vendors: Appliance, Firewall, IDS, Cloud
  - NIST, ISO27000, Generic and Process Standards
  - Process Street (Linux) www.process.st
  - Large Organizations for process & policy needs
- `Baselines`
  - Microsoft, Policy and GPO
  - NIST - Updates for currently approved platforms
  - USDCB (DISA – military standards)
  - Vendor and Application Specific
  - Large Organizations ie: Universities IT standardization

---

## Patching and Updates

- Post-Install, Pre-production (sand box)
- Update all:
  - OS, Roles, Applications
- Windows Updates
  - WUA - Windows Update Agent
  - WSUS – Windows System Update Server
- `Microsoft Update and baseline Tools` – Evolution:
  - MBSA – Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer (eol 2015)
  - MSCM – Microsoft System Compliance Manager (eol 2018)
  - **MSCT** - `Microsoft Security Compliance Toolkit`
    - **Baseline** based & includes: LGPO & Policy Analyzer
    - CLI plus uses PowerShell commandlets (mini-scripts)
  - Publish WSUSCN2.CAB Update and Patch file

---

## Malware Protection

- Windows Defender
  - Now testing at 99% effective
  - **Definitions** as found
  - **Updates** automatically before scheduled scan
  - **Upgrade** to ATP: `Active Threat Protection` for endpoints, cloud, Office 365
- Anti-Virus, Anti-Malware Vendors
  - Defender complimentary or Complete Platforms (Defender turns off)
  - Client and Server 2016 DC **auto off** on other A/V install
  - **Server** 2016 member **stays on** – must be manually disabled
- `CVE – Common Vulnerabilities and Exploits`
  - CVEs have been found and documented, retired from databases when fixed
  - `Zero Day Attacks` – Unusued VEs, Found and hoarded, ie: not Common
- **CVE Databases**
  - NIST National Vulnerabilities Database
  - cve.Mitre.org searchable repository
  - Search by Software, Firmware, Hardware, IoT devices, even brands like Tesla!

---

## The Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP)

- Definition: The **least authorization** required to perform the assigned role or task.
- Applies to all `Group Policy Objects (GPO)`
  - Such as:
    - Users / Principles
    - Operating Units
    - Roles
    - Systems
    - Locations
    - Service Providers
    - Federations

---

- Roles and Groups
  - Server Roles
  - Active Directory
    - Database of Users, Groups, Authorizations
    - Provides access management (AAA)
    - `OU` – **Operational Units**
    - Domain Assignments
    - Forest and Tree Design
  - Domain Controllers
  - Other Access Management components

---

## File and Volume Encryption

- Used to securely encrypt data, insure **non-repudiation** of data, and authenticate valid user permissions.
- `NTFS` – **Windows** File System
- `EFS` - **Encrypted** File System
- `BitLocker` - **Volume** encryption
- `AppLocker` - **Software** restriction policies

---

## BCM & Server Environment - Review

- Server Security must be **planned** and **standardized** at every step for consistency, measurement accuracy, expansion and for training purposes during in employee turnover.
  - Repurposing systems, virtualization and outsourcing to cloud providers becomes an easier process with comprehensive planning.
- **`Checklists` and `Baselines`** are used to **insure a consistent** process that will highlight changes and weaknesses – they assist in assessing configurations for compliance and ensure quality Policy outcomes.
- These plans are just part of a comprehensive IT Security Plan, which is again a critical component of a management supported overall BCM plan.
- Plan **factors** common to all `operational units` are:
  - Plans and processes must be **maintained continuously** to be effective
  - **Future** expectations and **expansion** plans are consideed
  - `Disaster Avoidance` should run ~ **75%** of BCM budget
  - `Disaster Recovery` will still be needed at ~ **25%** of BCM Budget
  - **Financial** needs must be clearly articulated to receive appropriate allocations
    - Both **Capital budget** (annual expenditures) and **Operating budget** (monthly expenses)
    - Keep a running `Cost of Downtime (CoD)` measured in $$ lost per hour of downtime
    - Utilize CoD for **calculating** `Return on Investment` – based on incident avoidance tracking
