# Gather - Wk02

[Back](../../gather.md)

- [Gather - Wk02](#gather---wk02)
  - [Outsourcing](#outsourcing)
  - [Sources of Software](#sources-of-software)
    - [Information Technology Service Firms](#information-technology-service-firms)
    - [Packaged Software Producers](#packaged-software-producers)
    - [Enterprise Solutions Software](#enterprise-solutions-software)
    - [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
    - [Open-Source Software](#open-source-software)
    - [In-House Development](#in-house-development)
    - [Comparisons](#comparisons)
  - [Costs and Benefits](#costs-and-benefits)
    - [Off-the-Shelf Software](#off-the-shelf-software)
  - [Reuse](#reuse)
    - [Approaches](#approaches)
      - [Ad hoc Reuse](#ad-hoc-reuse)
      - [Facilitated Reuse](#facilitated-reuse)
      - [Managed Reuse](#managed-reuse)
      - [Designed Reuse](#designed-reuse)
      - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Summary](#summary-1)

---

Understand outsourcing
Describe six different sources of software
Discuss how to evaluate off-the-shelf software
Explain reuse and its role in software development

## Outsourcing

- `Outsourcing`

  - the process of hiring a candidate or a company to manage the software for the business purposes, instead of building it entirely within your own company,

- Outsourcing should be considered as **an option during systems analysis**

- Reason
  - Cost Saving
  - Focus on core processes
  - Capacity management
  - Access to expertise
  - Technology Know-how
  - Transfer of risk

---

- Advantages:
  - reduce **operation costs**
  - Easier **cost control**
  - Access to **expertise**
  - Process optimization by focusing the core processes
  - Releasing internal capabilities

---

- Disadvantages:
  - Loss of control
  - Confidentiality risks
  - Quality issues
  - Hidden costs: monitoring cost

---

## Sources of Software

### Information Technology Service Firms

- **Information Technology Service Firm**

  - Develop, host and run applications
  - Provide other services
  - IT Service firms employ consultants with domain-specific experience

- **Utilized** when

  - Organization **lacks resources** to develop in-house system
  - Suitable **off-the-shelf solution** is **not available**

- **Benefits**
  - Help companies **develop custom information systems** for internal use

---

### Packaged Software Producers

- **Packaged Software Producers**

  - e.g., Microsoft, Intuit, Oracle, Symantec, Adobe, etc.
  - Produce pre-packed or **off the shelf systems**
  - Products range from **broad-based packages** to industry specific packages

- Two types of software
  - `Turnkey`
    - **cannot be modified** to meet specific users needs
  - `Non-turnkey`
    - can be **modified** Off-the-shelf software can meet up to 70-80% of an organization’s needs.

---

### Enterprise Solutions Software

- **Enterprise Solutions Software(Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Systems)**

  - e.g., Oracle, SAP AG
  - Consist of a series of **integrated modules**
  - Each **module** supports individual traditional business **function**
    - Accounting
    - Distribution
    - Manufacturing
    - Human Resources
  - Integrated to **focus on business processes** rather than business functional areas
  - Enables an organization to **integrate all parts** of a business process in a unified information system
    - All aspects of a transaction occur seamlessly in a single information system

- **Advantages**

  - **Single repository** for all aspects of a **business process**
  - Ensures more **consistent** and accurate **data**
  - Less maintenance
  - Flexibility of modules
  - Additional modules can be added as needed
  - Additional modules are immediately integrated into existing system

- **Disadvantages**

  - **Complexity** of **implementation**
  - Extended implementation **time**
  - Reliance upon **consultants**
  - Often, organizations must **change the way** that they do business in order to use systems

- ERP vendors
  - SAP
  - Oracle

---

### Cloud Computing

- Providers:

  - Google, Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, etc.

- Software is **rented or licensed** from third party providers
- Run at remote sites
- Applications are **accessed** through the **Internet** or a VPN
- Applications bought, installed and maintained by service provider
- Users **pay per-use** or **month-to-month license**
- Includes `software as a service(SaaS)`, `Platform (PaaS)` and `Infrastructure (IaaS)`
- Some examples:
  - Google Apps, Salesforce.com, Social Media websites, etc.

---

- Benefit

  - **Freeing** internal IT **staff**
  - **Faster access** to applications than internal development
  - **Lower-cost** access to corporate-quality applications

- **Concerns**
  - Reliability
  - Security
  - Compliance with government regulations
    - Sarbanes-Oxley
    - HIPPA - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act

---

### Open-Source Software

- Open-Source Software
  - e.g, Linux, Firefox, mySQL, Wordpress, etc.
- Freely available
- Includes source-code
- Maintained by a group of interested individuals

---

### In-House Development

- Complete system
  - **end to end development** and ongoing maintenance and support
- Hybrid systems

---

### Comparisons

- IT Service Firms
  - When the task requires **custom support** and systems **cannot** be built **internally** or the system needs to be outsourced
- Packaged Software Producers
  - When the supported **task** is **generic**
- ERP
  - For complete systems that **cross functional boundaries**
- Cloud Computing
  - For **instant access** to an application when the supported task is **generic**
- Open Source Software
  - When the supported task is **generic** but the **cost** is an issue
- In-House Developers
  - When **resources** and **staff** are **available** and the system can be built from scratch

---

## Costs and Benefits

- `Tangible costs`

  - expenses that can be **easily quantified** and measured in **monetary** terms
  - e.g., such as the salary committed to hiring a new employee or the cost of off the shelf software.

- `Tangible benefits`

  - **positive outcomes** that can also be directly measured in **monetary value**
  - e.g., cash flow, cash income, and cost reduction.

- `Intangible costs`

  - expenses that are **difficult to quantify** with a specific **monetary** value
  - factors: reputation, employee morale, or customer satisfaction

- `Intangible benefits`
  - **positive** outcomes that are also hard to measure **financially**
  - e.g.,raising customer satisfaction rate, improved employee motivation, growing market share, and better reputation for a company's brand

---

### Off-the-Shelf Software

- Criteria for Choosing

  - **Cost**

    - In-house versus purchase.
    - **Buy-Build** decision

  - **Functionality**

    - The tasks the software can perform and the mandatory, essential and desired system features

  - **Flexibility**
    - How **easy** is it for the client or vendor to **customize** the software? Can you customize the forms, reports, etc?
    - Can the vendor provide support and how much?
  - Ease of **Installation**

  - Vendor **Support**
  - **Viability** of Vendor
    - Will the vendor continue to exist?
  - **Documentation**
    - What exists? Is it understandable and up to date?
  - Response Time
    - How long does it take for the SW to **respond to the users’ requests**.
    - How long to complete a job? How long for the vendor to respond?

---

- Validating Software information
  - Information from vendor
    - Documentation
    - Marketing literature
    - Questionnaire
  - Request for Proposal, (RFP)\* - RFI, RFQ, RFP…
    - The request for proposal (RFP) is used when the organization wants to solicit **proposals from several competing vendors.**
    - background information
    - explanation of the system needs
    - description rules or procedures
  - Software Test drive
  - Feedback from other users
  - Independent software testing services

---

## Reuse

- `reuse`
  - **Use of previously** written software resources in new applications
  - Most often applied to object-oriented and component-based development
- Benefits

  - Increases productivity
  - Reduces defect density
  - Reduces rework

- Reuse plan must be matched with companies strategic business goals

### Approaches

#### Ad hoc Reuse

- **Individuals** are free to find or develop **reusable assets** on their own, but few, if any, organizational rewards are offered for reusing these assets.
- Storage is not an issue, because individuals keep track of and distribute their own software assets.
- Because this is an **individually driven approach**, it is **difficult to measure any potential benefits** to the company.

---

#### Facilitated Reuse

- Developers are not required to practice reuse, but they are **encouraged** to do so.
- The organization **makes** available some tools and techniques that enable the development and sharing of reusable assets.
- One or more **employees may be assigned** the role to promote and publicize a reuse program.
- Little is done to **track** the quality and use of reusable assets, however, the overall corporate **investment is small**.

---

#### Managed Reuse

- A more **structured**, and more **expensive**, mode of managing software reuse.
- With managed reuse, the development, sharing and adoption of reusable assets is **mandated**.
- The organization **establishes processes and policies** for ensuring that reuse is **practiced** and that the results are **measured**, and that their **quality** is ensured.
- The focus is on **identifying existing assets** that can be reused from various sources including libraries of assets, companies that resell them and the open source community, etc.

---

#### Designed Reuse

- The most **expensive** and **extensive** approach to reuse.
- Reuse is **mandated**, and effectiveness is **measured**.
- The reuse is mandated in that the assets are designed for reuse as they are being designed for specific applications.
- The focus is on **developing reusable assets** rather than finding existing assets that may be reused.
- In these situations, as much as 90% of software **assets may be reused** across different applications

---

#### Summary

| Approaches        | Goal                       | Track and quality      | Invest   |
| ----------------- | -------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------- |
| ad hoc reuse      | individually driven        | difficult to measure   | low      |
| facilitated reuse | organ encourages           | employee to track      | low      |
| managed reuse     | organ mandate              | processes and policies | Moderate |
| designed reuse    | developing reusable assets | measured               | High     |

---

## Summary

Outsourcing
Six different sources of software
Evaluation of off-the-shelf software
Reuse of software assets

---

[TOP](#gather---wk02)
