# Interface - Wk08

[Back](../interface.md)

- [Interface - Wk08](#interface---wk08)
  - [wireframe](#wireframe)
    - [Different approaches](#different-approaches)
    - [6 steps to wireframing](#6-steps-to-wireframing)
      - [Research](#research)
      - [Prepare a Quick Reference](#prepare-a-quick-reference)
      - [Know/Understand the User flow](#knowunderstand-the-user-flow)
      - [Draft and Sketch](#draft-and-sketch)
      - [Add Detail and Test](#add-detail-and-test)
      - [Test](#test)
      - [Create Prototypes](#create-prototypes)
    - [High Fidelity or High-Def](#high-fidelity-or-high-def)
    - [3 Key Principles in creating good wireframes](#3-key-principles-in-creating-good-wireframes)
      - [Clarity](#clarity)
      - [Confidence](#confidence)
      - [Simplicity](#simplicity)

---

## wireframe

- `website wireframe`

  - an architectural blueprint;
  - **two-dimensional** black and white diagrams **before** you understand **how to build** the actual house.
  - useful in determining **how the user interacts** with the interface.

- `Wireframing` is a practice used by UX designers which allows them to **define and plan the information hierarchy of their design** for a website, app, or product. Think prototype or model.

- **plan the layout and interaction** of your interface.

  - irrelevant what colors or fancy text eventually get used.
  - A button or call to action needs to be clear to the user even it’s not brightly colored and flashing.

- Tools
  - a pen and paper in hand.
  - `Visio`, `Invision`, `Balsamiq` and `Axure`

---

- Wireframes drawn with **paper** and a **pencil**, or at a **whiteboard**
  - advantage:
    - very **easy to change**, help tremendously in early conversations about your website or product.
    - test with end users **at every stage** of design
    - **Changes** at these stages are much easier
- Switching later to **software** (after initially hand-drawing your wireframe) allows you to keep track of more detailed decisions.

---

- It can be an advantage to **start off hand-drawing** your wireframes **before executing** more detailed versions using an online app or software.
  - These example wireframes should give you a good idea of how **information** can be **organized** on the screen.

---

### Different approaches

- **Wireframe** -> Interactive **Prototype** -> **Visual** -> **Design**
- If the task is very narrow and the **visual design** is either set or considered **unimportant** (such as with many backend administrative interfaces)
  - **Sketch** -> Code
- if the time and resources and the business value are all high, then spending the time to make a **high-definition** wireframe and going through a cycle of testing with a fully realized interactive prototype makes better sense.
  - **Sketch** -> **Wireframe** -> Hi-Def Wireframe -> Visual -> **Code**
- **Sketch** -> Wireframe -> Visual -> Code

---

### 6 steps to wireframing

- **Research**
- Prepare a quick **reference**
- Understand the **user flow**
- **Draft**, don’t draw. Sketch, don’t illustrate
- Add some **detail** and **test**
- Create **Prototypes**

---

#### Research

- UX design is a process, and **wireframing isn’t the first step** in this process.
- Before you even think about picking up a pen and paper, you need to have covered the first two steps; namely **understanding who your audience** is by way of **user research**, detailing requirements, creating user personas and defining use cases, and complementing this with further competitor and industry research.
- What does that mean? That means carrying out **analysis of similar product** lines to your own (HCI analysis), digging into **prevailing UX trends** and best practises, and, of course, reviewing your own internal **design guidelines**.

---

#### Prepare a Quick Reference

- Previous phases will produce much quantitative and qualitative data
- Keep this in mind while drawing out your wireframes. You may struggle to both retain and recall all of this reference information,
- Try **creating cheatsheets** with your **business and user goals** (your requirements), your personas, use cases, and perhaps some **reminders** of the new and interesting features you stumbled across in your competitor research.
- A few choice quotes from your user audience might also help focus your attention on the **user’s experience**, which is—never forget—what you’re designing!

---

#### Know/Understand the User flow

- Your wireframing is going to get very messy very quickly if you don’t have an idea of **how many screens** you’ll need to produce and the **flow** you expect the **user to follow**.
- It’s important to have a **watertight concept** of where your users will be **coming from** (which marketing channel, for example, and off the back of what messaging), and where you need them to **end up**.
- **Good information architecture** will ensure that your users are self-sufficient, lower levels of user frustration (and ultimately more satisfaction and trust), and therefore lower drop-off or drop-out rates.
- This means more revenue, and probably means happy managers—and a job well done.

---

#### Draft and Sketch

- Remember: you’re **outlining** and representing **features and formats**, not illustrating in mighty fine detail.
- **Don’t** think about **aesthetics**, don’t think about colors—the UI designer can deal with that.

- Ask yourself the following three questions while you’re sketching:
  - How can you **organise the content** to support your users’ goals?
  - Which **information** should be most prominent?
  - Where should your **main message** go?
  - What should the user **see first** when arriving at the page?
  - What will the user **expect to see** on certain areas of the page?
  - Which buttons or touch points does the user need to **complete the desired actions**?

---

#### Add Detail and Test

- Now add some **informational details** to prepare your wireframe for its upgrade to **prototype-mode**.
- Add **detail** in the way you would naturally process a screen, or the page of a book: from top-to-bottom and left-to-right. (Unless you are developing for a country that uses a different flow. i.e. China)
- Remember: Your wireframe is the **skeleton** of your site. You’re **not adding the muscle** just yet—the content and the copy.

- Think about the following:
  - **Usability conventions**, such as putting the navigation at the top next to your logo
  - Having a **search box** on the top right, and so on
  - Simple, instructional **wording** for i.e. calls-to-action
  - Trust-building elements: What do you need to build trust in your customers and where would be the best place to put these elements?
  - **Tooltips** to indicate any **functionality** that could be included in a prototype transition

---

#### Test

- Your users may well be your **colleagues**, **external users** etc.
- The wireframe serves as a **common language** between designers, stakeholders and web and app developers.
- You can use tools like `UsabilityHub` to preference test screens and collect qualitative feedback, and -`Prott` to test and check understanding of the basic user flow.
- With these tools, you can simply photograph and upload your hand-sketched wireframes, and then connect them to user button overlays.

---

#### Create Prototypes

- Once you’ve **documented and acted** upon the **feedback** from your first prototype, you can start developing your high-fidelity prototypes.
- There are lots of **tools** out there for this, from `Proto.io` to `Adobe XD` and `Framer`, but the most well-known are `Sketch` and the browser-based, `Figma`.
- Once you’ve developed your wireframes in `Sketch`, you can **import** them into the industry-leading prototyping tool `InVision` and interlink your screens for a **second round** of high-fidelity **user testing**.
- It’s at this point that we’ve most certainly crossed from wireframing to prototyping.

---

### High Fidelity or High-Def

- Making a wireframe `high definition` means simply **adding more details**, as much as possible, **without** going **too granular** into the visual details.
- It may mean filling in the actual copy into the wireframe and trying to determine the ideal **font-sizes**.
  - The general idea is that **at visual/code stage** you want to be in **polishing mode** and no longer in drafting or experimenting mode.
- Perform the **iteration cycles (feedback <-> wireframing)** as quickly as possible in a wireframing application you are comfortable using.
- In certain scenarios it may be more ideal to skip defining the details too much and go straight into an interactive prototyping stage. The argument for this is that certain interaction details cannot be communicated fully on a flat image.

---

### 3 Key Principles in creating good wireframes

- Clarity
- Confidence
- Simplicity

---

#### Clarity

- Your wireframe needs to answer the questions of **what that site page is**, **what the user can do** there, and if it **satisfies their needs**.
- Your wireframe is an aid for you to **visualize the layout** of your site page and ensure that the user’s most important questions are answered and goals are achievable **without** being **distracted** by more aesthetic considerations.

---

#### Confidence

- **Ease of navigation** through your site and clear calls-to-action increase user confidence in your brand.
  - If your site page is **unpredictable**, or has buttons or boxes in unexpected places user confidence **diminishes**.
- A lot of this information can already be organized at the wireframing stage.
- Using **familiar navigational processes** and placing buttons in **commonly-used and intuitive positions**, user confidence will soar–and that’s before you’ve even gotten around to thinking about colors and styles.

---

#### Simplicity

- Too much information, copy, or links, can be **distracting** to the user and will have a detrimental affect on your users’ ability to achieve their goals.
  - You want your users to be able to find their way through your site **with as little extra ‘fluff’ as possible**, to the elements that map to their most significant goals in a given context.
- Your wireframe should be a visual guide to the framework of your site and how it will be navigated.
- **Attractiveness** at this stage is **not** a **consideration**.
- Once you’ve decided who your product or service is for, you can begin **laying out** the information they are looking for **in an intuitive and natural way** that is not only familiar to them as users of this kind of service, but that also guides them towards the conversion point or otherwise helps them to achieve their goals in the interaction.
- By presenting your information in this way, you are aligning both the business goals of your site with the needs of the customer.
