# Interface - Wk01

[Back](../../interface.md)

- [Interface - Wk01](#interface---wk01)
  - [Interface](#interface)
    - [Interface vs System vs Environment](#interface-vs-system-vs-environment)
    - [Contracts](#contracts)
    - [Leaky and Specific Interfaces](#leaky-and-specific-interfaces)
  - [Systems Integration](#systems-integration)
    - [Types of Integration](#types-of-integration)
    - [Integration and Interoperability](#integration-and-interoperability)

---

## Interface

- `Interface`:

- Noun

  - a **point** where two systems, subjects, organizations, etc. **meet and interact**.
    - "the interface between accountancy and the law“

- In COMPUTING

  - a d**evice or program** **enabling** a user to **communicate** with a computer.
    - "a graphical user interface“
  - A device, such as a cable, network card, monitor, or keyboard, that **enables interaction or communication between** a computer and another entity.

- Verb

  - **interact with** (another system, person, organization, etc.).
  - "his goal is to get people interfacing with each other"

- In COMPUTING

  - **connect** with (another computer or piece of equipment) by an **interface**.
    - "the hotel's computer system can interface automatically with the booking system“
  - A system of interaction or communication between a computer and another entity such as a printer, another computer, a network, or a human user.

- Noun
  - a **situation**, way, or place where **two things** come together and **affect each other**
  - a system that is used for operating a computer : a system that controls the way information is shown to a computer user and the way the user is able to work with the computer
  - an area or system through which one machine is connected to another machine
- Verb

  - to **connect** or become connected : to connect by means of an interface

- Software

  - When referring to **software**, an interface is something that **allows a user to interact with computers** in person or over a network.
  - An interface may also refer to a **software module used** in a system that **allows** an application or software to **interact with** another program or hardware.
    - Name some examples…

- Hardware
  - When referring to **hardware**, an interface is a **physical device**, port, or connection that **interacts** with the computer or other hardware device.
    - Name some examples…

---

### Interface vs System vs Environment

- `interface`
  - must any part of the **interaction** between the **environment** and the **system** that is **not exclusively attributable** to one or the other, but can only be attributed to both. 属性不能是其中之一，而是两者属性的交集
- `system`
  - It is whatever useful thing you're **working with**.
    - e.g., It could be your laptop computer, a computer program, the door to enter your house, or a small piece of source code.
- `environment`:

  - take as much of the system as possible **out of what you consider to be the environment**, but stop once you've reached the point where removing anything further would prevent the environment from interacting with the system through its shared **boundary** to the system in question.

- `Implementation`
  - the process of **putting** a designed system **into action** within a specific environment
  - the system minus the interface. 除接口外的所有系统部分

---

### Contracts

- An `interface` can be thought of as a **contract** between the **system** and the **environment**.
  - Alternatively, an `interface` is the **intersection** between the **system** and the **environment**.
  - The interface formally describes **what can pass between** the system and the environment.

接口可以被看成是“合同”， 用以定义交流的方式，正如公理，保证推理的逻辑性。

- `axioms`公理

  - **Post-conditions**后置条件, and **pre-conditions**前置条件 are all **guarantees** about certain properties or behaviour.

- e.g., Before two parties engage in doing business together, they ought to **have a contract prepared**.
  - The `contract` **spells out what the deliverables** are, how much money is paid, and when.
  - When the contract is **breached**, there is a **consequence** but if you forget to define something in the contract, then unexpected surprises are more likely.
- e.g., The keyboard interface has a contract with with the system and the environment. The system being the computer and the environment being the user’s hands.
  - Describe the contract…..

---

### Leaky and Specific Interfaces

- `Leaky interface`有漏洞的

  - exists when the interface is **prone to being ignored** during any communication between the system and the environment.
  - user friendly
  - Non-specific
  - less precise, errors are more frequent

- `Specific interface`
  - has a relatively small number of possible inputs and outputs.
  - non user friendly
  - specific and non-leaky
  - more precise, errors less frequent
    - If errors occurs, cause failures

---

## Systems Integration

- `Systems integration`

  - the process of **combining** software and hardware components **into a single system**, allowing the systems to work together efficiently and share information and processes

- `Interfaces` are the **functional and physical connections** at the **boundaries** of systems that are designed to interoperate with other systems.

---

### Types of Integration

- `Vertical integration`

  - when the **components** of a system, **developed by a single** acquisition program, are integrated to produce the desired capability.
  - e.g., app | OS | hareware

- `Horizontal integration`
  - creates new capabilities **across individual systems** developed by **different** programs.
  - Often, the individual systems were originally developed for different customers and purposes.

---

### Integration and Interoperability

- `Integration` and `interoperability` are two sides of the same coin, and TSAs need to be concerned about both.
- `Integration`
  - the process of connecting systems to work together as one
  - addressed when a system is being developed
  - ensuring that the `interfaces` are **well understood and documented** and that the **physical** environment has been thoroughly **addressed** in the design and implementation.
- `Interoperation`
  - the ability of systems to communicate and share data with each other
  - the **role** of the developed system
  - **how** the various components **interact** to meet the customer's operational business needs.

---

- TSA role
  - A critical first step in **identifying and assessing I&I challenges** is to understand the TSA's responsibilities in addressing integration and the complexities of the associated problems.
  - TSAs should adopt the point of view that they **own the I&I issues** associated with their system, whether they are formally responsible for them or not.
    - This includes **all aspects** of I&I: technical, programmatic, social, and business.
    - Common to all these issues is the need to **manage requirements** for performance, size, weight, power, and cooling.
  - **Environmental constraints** must also be considered.
    - When software is a component, processing platforms, operating systems, and languages are **all concerns** from multiple perspectives, including intended use, future supportability, and modernization roadmaps.

---

- I&I can cover a broad range of issues, such as:
  - **Electronic components** being incorporated onto a motherboard
  - Computer **subsystems** and software forming a personal computer
  - **Mechanical components** being included in a vehicular drive train
  - Radio transceiver and **antenna** being installed in a vehicle or aircraft
  - Multiple computers and applications being built into a command center
  - Business interactions crossing many different commands or operating center boundaries.

---

通过接口， 可以对 II 实施控制

- `Interfaces` are where TSAs can **exert control**, particularly in the technical area.
  - **Internal** and **external** `interfaces` must be established and their configuration managed.
  - **Identify in detail** as many interfaces as possible.
  - **External interfaces** represent the **boundary** and **scope** of the system for which TSAs are responsible.
  - Interfaces **among the stakeholders** are equally important.
  - Interfaces to the business process or operations also should not be forgotten.

---
