# Doc - Wk04

[Back](../../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk04](#doc---wk04)
  - [Web Applications – Server-Side Technologies](#web-applications--server-side-technologies)
    - [Web Servers \& Ports](#web-servers--ports)
    - [State Management](#state-management)
    - [Configuration Files](#configuration-files)
      - [Common Server-Side Configurations](#common-server-side-configurations)
    - [Apache \& PHP: Files \& File Types](#apache--php-files--file-types)
      - [WAMP Server](#wamp-server)
    - [IIS \& ASP.NET – Files \& File Types](#iis--aspnet--files--file-types)
    - [ASP.NET - Configuration Files](#aspnet---configuration-files)
    - [IIS – Server Settings](#iis--server-settings)
    - [IIS - Sites](#iis---sites)
      - [Default Web Site](#default-web-site)
  - [Wrapping It Up](#wrapping-it-up)

---

Describe characteristics of server-side web technologies.
Identify common server-side web technologies and describe their role in a web-based system.
Describe/capture in detail various types of server-side software components and where/how to find them.
Understand common server-side State Management techniques.

## Web Applications – Server-Side Technologies

- a single **web application** will be **split** into `client-side` and `server-side` code and components.
- **distinct characteristics** of `server-side`:
  - Code **runs** on the web server.
    - If request is for **static content** then the web server will simply **find** and **send** appropriate files back to the client.
    - For **dynamic** content, the code will be **processed** by either the `web server` itself or an `application server` and,
      - after code is done processing, the resulting **HTML code** is **sent back** to the client.
  - Contains the **back end code** that processes the request from the client
    - ie. processes user input, databases operations such as database queries and updates, etc.
  - Users cannot see or access any code that runs on the server.

---

- wider range and type of `server-side` web technologies than `client side`.
  - examples:
    - Web / Application **Servers**
      - Apache, Apache TomCat, IIS (Internet Information Services), Nginx, IBM HTTP Server, etc.
    - Server-Side **Programming/Scripting Languages**
      - PHP, ASP.NET, Java and JSP, Python, Ruby on Rails, C#, C++, Javascript, etc.
    - Keep in mind not all web servers and languages are compatible,
      - for example although the newest ASP.NET version promises it will run on Linux prior versions required IIS web server.
      - And, although new version may technically “run on Linux” unexpected issues are always possible with a major change.

---

### Web Servers & Ports

- Web Servers fall under a **category of software** called a **“service”**.

  - They will run in the **background**, **“listening”** for any client requests from the internet.
  - When a user attempts to access a website, the client needs to create a **unique connection** to our server (service).
  - We know the TCP/IP protocol will find the server (machine) hosting our web server by using the **IP address** linked to the site.
    - However, because we can have many different services on the same machine, the IP address is not enough, we also need to know what `port number` the service is listening on.
    - It is the **combination** of `IP` address and `port` number the service is listening on that **uniquely identifies the server side of the connection.**

- When we configure our web server, we need to **indicate** which port number we will use for the server.
- You can **only** have **1 port listening on 1 service at 1 time**.
  - For example, port `80` is the default port for `HTTP` but if you tried to run both Apache and mySQL services on port 80, the system would not know which service to send the data to.
- Some other default ports:
  - `HTTPS` requests: `443`
  - `DNS` Service: `53`
  - `FTP`: `21`
- If you use a port other than the default HTTP/HTTPS ports for your webserver users would then need to specify the port number when they typed in the URL for the site,
  - ie. http://somesite.ca:8080

---

### State Management

- Recap – what is state management?
  - Since `HTTP` is a **“stateless” protocol** we need techniques to allow us to **maintain the values** such as user and page information in between requests (pages). We call this `state management`.
- **Types** of server-side state:
  - `Session state`:
    - a session **starts** when a user **starts using** a web application and **ends** when they **stop** using the application (closes their browser).
    - Data is stored for each user's session.
  - `Application state`:
    - this is what is in **memory** when the application is running.
    - Data stored here is available **across all user sessions**.
    - As state management on the server side is controlled by the **server-side language/framework** being used, application state may or may not be tracked. (ie. ASP.NET tracks application state, PHP does not)

---

### Configuration Files

- As well as actual **code files**, you can expect to see **configuration files** used by web server to **store settings** such as:
  - file locations, session state info, timeout values, resource limits, port settings etc.
- Settings may apply to either **all sites** running on the web server or **individual web sites**.
- Configuration file settings are normally **applied when web code is loaded**.
- The **naming** of these files, exact **content** and **location** within the web site structure will depend on the web **technology** being used.

---

#### Common Server-Side Configurations

- has common elements.

  - However, implementation **details** (ie. file types used, naming of configuration files etc) and **where** to find the information we are looking for can vary depending on which **software products** you are working with.

- There are several choices available, we will explore in more detail two common configurations:
  - **Windows OS**, `IIS (Internet Information Services)` Web Server, `ASP.NET` framework, `SQL Server` database
  - **Linux/UNIX OS**, `Apache` Web Server, `MySQL` database, `PHP` server-side language (note: for our purposes, we will use the Windows OS instead of Linux.
    - Keep in mind, however, although Apache can run under Windows this configuration is less common)

---

### Apache & PHP: Files & File Types

- For `Apache` web server running with `PHP` server-side code, you would find the following configuration files:

  - `httpd.conf` -> This is the **main configuration** file for Apache web server.
  - `Php.ini` -> This is the **main configuration** file for the php language.

- **PHP files**
  - If a file has a file extension of `.php`, this indicates it contains php code.
  - When the Apache web server sees a file with this extension, it knows to **pass control** to the **PHP Interpreter** to translate the code to HTML.

---

#### WAMP Server

- As we are using WAMP Server application to run `Apache`, `PHP` and `MySQL` we will be using this tool to take a closer look at Apache Web Server and PHP in this module.
- Recap - WAMP Server:
  - To start WAMP Server, we run the application from the **Start** menu.
  - Once all our services start, we should see a green icon in our task – if you do not some or all of your services will not work!
  - WAMP Server is a **software interface** to manage a bundle of services and apps.
    - When it is running, our services will run in the **background** (Apache, MySQL, MariaDB) unless we stop the services or exit the app. - To reduce the possibility of port **conflicts** with other apps, it is best to **exit** WAMP Server when you are **not using** it.
  - It is important we **Stop All Services** (left click on icon) or **Exit** (right click on icon) WAMP Server **before shutting down** Windows
  - Does anyone know why?

---

- Open up a browser and go to the following URL: http://localhost

  - This takes us to the WAMP Server **Home Page**, which displays useful configuration information such as:
    - **Loaded extensions** for PHP
      - These are **all the extensions** that are currently loaded in PHP environment.
      - Extensions are **code libraries**, also referred to as plug-ins to “extend” PHP by allowing specific functions to be used in your code.
    - **Version numbers** of the various services / applications
    - Additional **tools**, such as phpMyAdmin.
    - Links to **documentation** for all products, etc

- Now go to your WAMP Server icon and right click to **display menu**
  - This will give us various **options** related to application settings and allow us to do some **testing** of our configurations
- Click on the **Tools menu option**
  - What options could we use from the Tools menu to test for and resolve any port conflicts?
  - What are the default port settings for Apache and MySQL?

---

### IIS & ASP.NET – Files & File Types

- For IIS web server running ASP.NET, you would find the following configuration files:

- `Web.config` -> `Configuration file for ASP.NET application`, defines **default settings** for **individual** web sites.
- `Machine.config` -> `Configuration file for ASP.NET application`, defines **default settings** for the **entire server / machine**.

- ASP.NET (Active Server Pages) files
  - If a file has a file extension of `.asp` or `.aspx`, this indicates the file is a **.NET code file**, also referred to as a **.NET Web Form**.
  - When the IIS processes the request, it **checks the file extension**. It will then be **handled by** the appropriate `.dll` (ie if .asp file, then it is handled by asp.dll)

---

### ASP.NET - Configuration Files

- Here is an example of part of a web.config file. If we were researching this particular web application, we can deduce from looking at this file that the app connects to a `SQL Server` database **using Windows Authentication** – Integrated **Security mode** (log onto SQL Server with the Windows user executing the program).

```conf
<configuration>
  <connectionStrings>
    <add
      name="myConnection" name="sqlServer";
      connectionString="Data Source=localhost;Initial Catalog=MyDatabase;Integrated Security=True;" />
  </connectionStrings>
</configuration/>
```

---

### IIS – Server Settings

- **Server Certificates**: if you are using SSL/TLS you would identify all your server certificates here
- **Default Documents**: this indicates **which file to load** when website is launched
  - ie. default.htm, default.aspx, index.htm, index.aspx, etc

---

### IIS - Sites

- “Sites”.
- This shows us **settings for all sites**.
- As this is the default setting, we only have 1 web site but if we have more than 1 site you would see multiple items in the list under sites.
- This shows us **summary info** for each site, such as status, binding (which **ports** we can use for this site and **protocol** attached to it) as well as the **physical path** of our root directory for the site (inetpub\wwwroot).
  - Note: `inetpub\wwwroot` is the IIS **default location** so this where we would usually find content for sites managed via IIS.

---

#### Default Web Site

- individual site.
  - To make it easier to have a web site up and running quickly IIS creates a **“default web site”** for us with all the **critical settings**, such as **ports**, **physical** directory where to put your website content, etc . At this point, we would just need to copy our web folder structure to the physical location of the default website and update any unique settings (ie name of site, apply any SSL certificates to that particular site if needed, etc).
- Notice we have another setting related to `SSL` at the **web site level (SSL Settings)**.
  - We can assign (or not) a certificate **to each individual website** we're hosting.
    - This allows us to have both https (secure) and http websites on the same server.

---

## Wrapping It Up

- Now that we have a good understanding of web servers, let’s do some comparisons to finish off this module.
- Search the Internet for information comparing 3 **web server options**, 2 of them being Apache and IIS. The 3rd option being your choice. Consider pros / cons of each and what factors may result in one being a better choice than the others.
- Expect to share your research with another classmate, small group or the whole class, as directed by your professor.
- Options: you may be asked to discuss your comparisons or share some details via chat message, again your Professor will direct you
- Some questions to consdier during your research
- Are there specific operating systems / platforms / languages that can be used with the specific web server?
- Are there any noticeable performance differences?
- Cost comparison?
