# Data Tech: wk05

[Back](../data_tech.md)

- [Data Tech: wk05](#data-tech-wk05)
  - [Database Diagrams](#database-diagrams)
    - [One to One Relationship](#one-to-one-relationship)
    - [One to Many Relationship](#one-to-many-relationship)
    - [Many-to-Many Relationship](#many-to-many-relationship)
  - [Introduction to SQLINFO-6136](#introduction-to-sqlinfo-6136)
    - [T-SQL](#t-sql)
    - [Comments](#comments)
    - [Statement Structure](#statement-structure)
      - [SELECT](#select)
      - [Sorting (ORDER BY)](#sorting-order-by)
  - [Key Relationships](#key-relationships)
    - [Primary Keys](#primary-keys)

---

Understand the 3 types of database relationships
Model Diagraming in SSMS

## Database Diagrams

- A relational database collects different types of data sets that use tables, records, and columns.
- It is used to create a well-defined **relationship between** database **tables** so that relational databases can be easily stored.

- important parameters of the relational database:
  - It is based on a **relational model** (Data in tables)
  - Each **row** in the table with a unique id, key
  - **Columns** of the table hold **attributes** of data

---

- There are 3 different types of relational database tables.
  - One to One relationship
  - One to many or many to one relationship
  - Many to many relationships

---

### One to One Relationship

- It is used to create a relationship between two tables in which **a single orw** of the first table can **only** be related to **one and only one record** of a second table.
  - Similarly, the row of a second table can also be related to anyone row of the first table.
  - A one-to-one relationship is always one-to-one, no matter which table you start with.
- This is the **least common** type of relationship.

---

### One to Many Relationship

- **Any single rows** of the first table can be related to **one or more rows** of the second tables, but the rows of second tables can only relate to the only row in the first table.
- This is the **most common** relationship type.
- From the linked table, the **one-to-many relationship** becomes a **many-to-one relationship**.
  - For example, a biological mom can have many children, but each child can only have one biological mom.

---

### Many-to-Many Relationship

- **each record** of the first table can relate to **any records** (or no records) in the second table.
- Similarly, **each record** of the second table can also relate to **more than one** record of the first table.
- It is also represented an `N:N` relationship.
- So again, there is zero, one, or many records on one side of the relationship, and zero, one, or many on the other. - This is the most **flexible relationship** type.

---

Understand the basics of SQL
Understand T-SQL
Start to module SELECT queries

## Introduction to SQLINFO-6136

- `SQL` (`Structured Query Language`)

  - a common language that allows you to **access and manipulate** data in relational databases,
    - such as: SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, IBM DB2, Microsoft Access, etc.
  - an **ANSI standard** computer language

- We can use SQL to (keep in mind this is not a complete list of SQL functionality):
  - Create new databases, tables and views.
  - Execute queries to view our data from one or multiple tables.
  - Insert new records into a database.
  - Update existing records in a database.
  - Delete records from a database.

---

- ANSI Standard Language
  - The SQL language itself is an **open format** and considered to be an **ANSI standard** language.
  - There can be, however, **different versions** of SQL depending on the database and RDBM system being used.
  - All versions of SQL must support the **major commands** used in the language, such as SELECT, WHERE UPDATE, INSERT, DELETE, etc.

---

### T-SQL

- `Transact-SQL(T-SQL)`
  - a **proprietary** version of SQL created by **Microsoft** by adding code to SQL for use with their own software, such as SQL Server.
  - help perform operations like retrieving the data from a single row, inserting new rows, and retrieving multiple rows.
  - It is a **procedural language** that is used by the SQL.

---

### Comments

- 2 different types
  - Single line comments: `--`
  - Multi-line comments: `/* */`

---

### Statement Structure

- All SQL statements follow a **basic structure**, which depends on the type of statement.
- All SQL **keywords** (ie. SELECT, FROM, WHERE, ORDER BY, etc.) should be **in all capital letters**.
- Each clause should start on a new line.

---

#### SELECT

```sql
SELECT columnNames
FROM tableName
WHERE condition(s)
ORDER BY columnNames;
```

- Each of the 4 lines above are what we call **“clauses”**
  - parts of statements starting with specific keywords
- A **semi-colon** indicates the **end** of a SQL statement.

- `Distinct`: We can use the keyword DISTINCT to **get rid of duplication** and show **unique results**.
- **String Literal**:
  - We can create a string literal by surrounding any text value by a pair of **single quotes**
  - constant value for a column: `SELECT 'value' FROM student;`
- **Concatenation**: combination of table columns (concatenation) and string values (string literals). We can use a function called `CONCAT` (T-SQL) to concatenate columns and/or string literals together.
  - `CONCAT(fname, ' ', lname)`

---

- Column Alias
  - keyword `AS` followed by the new column name
- Mathematical Operations
  - basic rules
    - SQL will execute **from left** to right.
    - **Multiplication** and **Division** is solved **first**, **then** **Addition** and **subtraction** is done.
    - **Parenthesis (brackets)** will **override** the order shown above (calculations in brackets solved first).

---

#### Sorting (ORDER BY)

- `ORDER BY` clause:

  - can sort by 1 or **more columns**.
    - Each column name must be **separated by a comma** if sorting by multiple columns.
  - can specify the **sort order** (ascending or descending) for each individual column.
    - can explicitly indicate **ascending** order with the keyword `ASC`, but it is not required as ascending order (A-Z or lowest to highest) is the **default**.
    - To sort a column by **descending** order (Z-A or highest to lowest) you would add the keyword `DESC`.
    - Both keywords ASC and DESC, if required, would be placed **after the name** of the column.
  - In ascending order, values will be listed in the following sequence:
    - **Numeric** values
    - Character values
    - **NULL** values
  - For descending order, the sequence is **reversed**.

- `Ordinal Sort`:
  - refer to columns according to their position in the results

---

## Key Relationships

- Understand key relationships in relational databases
- Model creating relationships in SSMS

### Primary Keys

- `primary key`
  - a unique, non-nullable **column** or **group of columns** that is used by the database to **uniquely identify records**.
- Primary keys are typically **named** `PK_<TableName>` and this is the **default** used by SQL Server if you create a primary key using the designer.

- `Foreign Keys`

  - A **foreign key relationship** is comprised of the **primary (or parent) table** and the **foreign (or child) table**.
  - The **foreign table** is **constrained** by the **primary table**.
  - Foreign keys are typically **named** `FK_<ForeignTableName>_<PrimaryTableName>` and this is the **default** used by SQL Server if you create a foreign key using the designer.

- Contraint in foreign table

  - When we create a foreign key, we **specify that the values** in the foreign (or child) table **must match available values** in the primary (or parent) table.
    - This means that we c**annot execute an insert or update** on the **foreign table** unless the new value is already in the primary table.
  - A `foreign key` ensures that **no child records are orphaned**.

- Contraint in the primary table

  - cannot execute a **delete or update** on the primary table if there is any foreign table that **references** that **value**.
  - This means we must **delete all children** before changing or removing the parent value they are dependent on.

- It prevents the **creation** of records **without a parent** and **prevents the removal of a parent** that still has children.
  - This ensures that the data that a record is dependent on will always be present.
