# RPA - wk01

[Back](../rpa.md)

- [RPA - wk01](#rpa---wk01)
  - [RPA](#rpa)
    - [Benefits](#benefits)
    - [Downside](#downside)
    - [Flavours of RPA](#flavours-of-rpa)
    - [The Technologoes you need to understand](#the-technologoes-you-need-to-understand)
      - [`On-Premise`](#on-premise)
      - [`Cloud`](#cloud)
      - [Web Technology](#web-technology)
      - [Programming Languages and Low code](#programming-languages-and-low-code)
      - [OCR (Optical Character Recognition)](#ocr-optical-character-recognition)
      - [Databases](#databases)
      - [APIs (Application Programming Interfaces)](#apis-application-programming-interfaces)
      - [AI (Artificial Intelligence)](#ai-artificial-intelligence)
  - [Components of RPA](#components-of-rpa)
    - [recorder](#recorder)
    - [development studio](#development-studio)
    - [Extensions and plugins](#extensions-and-plugins)
    - [Bot Runner](#bot-runner)
    - [Control Centre](#control-centre)
  - [RPA Platforms](#rpa-platforms)
    - [**UiPath**](#uipath)
    - [**Blue Prism**](#blue-prism)
    - [**Microsoft Power Automate**](#microsoft-power-automate)

---

## RPA

- `RPA` stands for `Robotic Process Automation`.
- It is a **software technology tools** to **automate** human tasks, which are manual, **rule-based**, or **repetitive**.
- Typically, it is like a robot that performs tasks **at a much higher rate** than a human can manually.
- These RPA software bots **never sleep** and make **zero mistakes**, and can interact with in-house applications, websites, user portals, etc.
- They can **log into** applications, **enter** data, open **emails** and attachments, calculate and complete tasks, and then log out

- The word 'Robot' in 'RPA' is **not a physical robot** but a **virtual system** that helps in automating **repetitive, manual** computing or business processes/tasks.

---

### Benefits

- **Cost Savings**

  - RPA helps organizations to save a huge amount of **cost** as it is typically **cheaper** than hiring an employee to perform the same set of tasks.

- **Less Errors**

  - RPA works on standa**rd logic** and does not get bored, distracted, or tired. Hence, the probability of **making errors reduces** to a great extent, which means **less re-work** and an enhanced reputation for efficiency.

- **Faster Processing**

  - RPA works **faster** than human employees as computer software does **not need breaks**, food, rest, etc., and can perform repetitive operations tirelessly. With RPA, processing time becomes predictable and consistent, which ensures high-quality customer service across the operations.

- **Better Regulatory Compliance**

  - RPA software **works on the logic and data fed to it** and does what is only needed as per the given instructions. Hence, there are minimal chances of not complying with the standard regulations.

- **Better Customer Service**

  - When RPA is implemented in a business, it frees many of its employees who can spend their time working on customer-related services. It is very beneficial for businesses that receive a lot of **customer queries**. It also leads to **increased productivity** for employees.

- **Auditable & Secure**
  - RPA bots will **only access the data** for which they are given permission and create a detailed audit trail of all activity.
- **Low Technical Barrier**
  - RPA does **not** require any **programming skills** to configure the software robot. Since it is a **code-free technology**, any non-technical person can set up the bot using drag and drop features. It also includes the 'Recorder' to record the steps of automation.

---

### Downside

- **Cost of Ownership**:
  - The business models vary. Some have a subscription or multiyear license. Other vendors may charge based on the number of bots.
- **But there is more to the costs**:
  - There is the need for some level of **training** and **ongoing maintenance**. Depending on the circumstances, there may be requirements for buying other types of software and hardware.
- **Technical Debt**:

  - This is an issue with RPA. As a company’s **processes change**, the bots may not work properly. This is why RPA does require ongoing attention

- **Enterprise Scale:**

  - It can be extremely **difficult to manage the numerous bots** and there also needs to be strong collaboration among IT.

- **Security:**

  - This is a growing risk with RPA implementations, especially as the technology covers more mission-critical areas of a company’s processes. Let’s face it, if there is a breach, then highly sensitive information could easily be obtained.
  - As RPA gets more pervasive in manufacturing, there may even be risks of property damage and bodily harm. This would likely be the case with attended RPA.

- **Expectations:**

  - According to a survey from PEGA, the average time it takes to develop a quality bot was 18 months, with only 39% being deployed on time.

- **Preparation**:

  - You need to do a **deep dive** in how your current tasks work. If not, you may be automating bad approaches.

- **Limits**:

  - RPA technology is somewhat **constrained**. For the most part, it works primarily for tasks that are routine and repetitive. If there is a need for judgment – say to approve a payment or to verify a document – then there should be human intervention. Although, as AI gets more pervasive, the issues are likely to fade away.
  - For example, insurance companies can use the technology to adjudicate claims for payments, based on individual claims history and firm-wide payment policies.

- **Virtualized Environments**:
  - This is where a desktop accesses applications remotely, such as through a platform.
  - However, some of the latest RPA offerings, such as from Microsoft and UiPath, are solving this problem.

---

### Flavours of RPA

- `Attended RPA (or robotic desktop automation or RDA)`:

  - This was the **first form** of RPA that emerged, back in 2003 or so.
  - `Attended RPA` means that the software **provides collaboration with a person** for certain tasks.

  - Example: would be in the **call center**, where a rep can have the RPA system handle looking up information while he or she talks to a customer.

- `Unattended RPA`:

  - This technology was the **second generation** of RPA.
  - With unattended RPA, you can automate a process **without the need for human involvement** – that is, the bot is triggered when certain events happen
  - Example: such as when a customer e-mails an invoice.
  - Consider that unattended RPA is generally for **back-office functions**.

- `Intelligent process automation or IPA`
  - (this may also be referred to as `cognitive RPA`):
  - This is the **latest generation** of RPA technology, which **leverages AI** to allow the system to learn over time
  - Example: would be the interpretation of documents, such as invoices.
  - There may be even **less human intervention** .

---

### The Technologoes you need to understand

- While RPA does **not require programming skills**, there is still a need to understand high-level concepts about technology.

#### `On-Premise`

- The **traditional** IT system approach is the use of `on-premise` technology.
- This means that a company **purchases and sets up** its own **hardware** and **software** in its own **data center**.
- Some of the benefits include:
  - A company has **complete control** over everything. This is particularly important for **regulated industries** that require high levels of **security** and **privacy**.
  - With on-premise software, you may have a better **ability to customize the solution** to your company’s unique needs and **IT policies**.
- However, the on-premise technology model has **serious issues** as well.
  - **Cost**, which often involves large **up-front** capital expenses.
  - **Ongoing need for maintenance**, upgrades, and monitoring.
  - And the use of point applications like Excel can lead to a **fragmented environment**, in which it becomes **difficult to centralize data** because there are so many files spread across the organization.

---

#### `Cloud`

- Companies could **pay per-user**, per-month fees for the services they used, and those services would be delivered to them immediately via the Internet, in the cloud.
- The **downsides** with cloud software. Here are just some to consider:
  - With **less control** of the platform, there are more **vulnerability** to security and **privacy lapses**.
  - **Outages** do happen and can be extremely disruptive and costly for enterprises that need **reliability**.
  - Cloud computing is **not necessarily cheap**. In fact, one of the biggest complaints against Salesforce.com is the cost.
- Regardless, the fact remains that the technology continues to **gain traction**.
- Besides the impact of **Microsoft Azure** and other cloud applications companies, another critical development is Amazon.com’s AWS platform.

- Benefits

  - The `Cloud` essentially **handles the complex administrative and infrastructure** requirements like storage, security, compute, database access, content delivery, developer tools, deployment, IoT (Internet of Things), and analytics.
  - This means the **development** of applications can be much **quicker**. The **costs** are generally **lower** and the fees are based on a per-use basis.

- As for RPA, the cloud has different implications and impacts. One is that a **platform needs to deal with complex distributed applications**, which can be difficult if a company develops custom programs on a cloud service.
- In some cases, an **on-premise** RPA system may be **loaded onto** a `cloud` service like AWS.
- While there are benefits with this, it is not cloud native. This is because you will still need to upgrade and maintain the software.

---

- `Public Cloud`:
  - The cloud is **accessed from remote servers**, such as from AWS, Salesforce.com, and Microsoft. The servers have an architecture known as **multitenant** that allows the users to **share a large IT infrastructure** in a secure manner.
  - This greatly helps to achieve **economies of scale**, which would not be possible if a company created its own cloud.
- `Private Cloud`:
  - This is when a company **owns the data center**. True, there are not the benefits of the economies of scale from a public cloud. But this may not be a key consideration. Some companies might want a private cloud because of **control and security**.
- `Hybrid Cloud`:
  - This is a blend of the public and private clouds.
  - For example, the public cloud may handle less **mission-critical functions**.

---

#### Web Technology

- The mastermind of the development of the `World Wide Web` – which involved the use of **hyperlinks** to navigate web pages – was a British scientist, Tim Berners-Lee.
- At the core of this was HTML or hypertext markup language, which was a set of commands and tags to display text, show colors, and present graphics. A key was that the system was **fairly easy to learn and use**, which helped to accelerate the number of web sites.

- For example, many of the commands in **HTML** involve surrounding content with tags, such as the following:
  `<strong>This is a Title</strong>`
- HTML would ultimately be **too simple**. So there emerged other systems to provide even richer experiences, such as with `CSS (Cascading Style Sheets`, which provides for borders, shadows, and animations) and `JavaScript` (this makes it possible to have sophisticated **interactivity**, say, with the use of forms or **calculations**).
- RPA must deal with such systems to work effectively. This means it will have to take actions like identify the commands and tags so as to automate tasks.

---

#### Programming Languages and Low code

- A **programming language** allows you to **instruct a computer** to take actions.
- The commands generally use **ordinary words** like IF, Do, While, and Then. But there can still be lots of complexity, especially with languages that use advanced concepts like object-oriented programming.
- Some of the most popular languages today include Python, Java, C++, C#, and Ruby.
- To use an RPA system, you have to use some code – but it’s not particularly difficult. It’s actually known as `low code.` As the name implies, it is about using **minimal manual input**.
  - For example, an RPA system has tools like **drag-and-drop** and **visualizations** to create a bot.
- This is not to imply that low code does not need some training. To do low code correctly, you will need to understand certain types of **workflows** and **approaches**.

---

#### OCR (Optical Character Recognition)

- A key feature for an RPA platform is `OCR (Optical Character Recognition)`, a technology that has actually been around for decades.
- It has two parts:
  - **Document scanner** (which could even be something like your smartphone)
  - Software that **recognizes** text.
- In other words, with OCR, you can scan an image, PDF, or even handwritten documents – and the text will be **recognized**. This makes it possible to **manipulate the text,** such as by transferring it onto a form or updating a databas

- There are many challenges with effective OCR scanning, such as:

  - The size of a **font**
  - The shape of the **text**
  - The **skewness** (is the text rotated or slanted?)
  - **Blurred** or degraded text
  - **Background** noise
  - Understanding different **languages**

- Then how does this technology help with RPA?
- One way is with **recoding a person’s actions** while working on an application. The OCR can better capture the workflows by recognizing words and other visuals on the screen. So, even if there is a change of the location of these items, the RPA system can still identify them.

- Something else: **Automation** involves large numbers of **documents**.
- Thus, OCR will greatly **improve the processing**. An example of this would be **processing a loan**. With OCR, a document will use OCR to **extract information** about a person’s financial background, the information about the property, and any other financial details. After this, the RPA system will apply the workflows and tasks to process the loan, say, with applying various rules and sending documents to different departments and regulatory agencies.
- But there are OCR systems that can help out, such as HyperScience. The software leverages sophisticated machine learning (ML) technology to quickly and accurately extract the information (understanding cursive writing, for example).

---

#### Databases

- At the heart of most applications is a database, which **stores data** that can be searched and updated. This is usually done by putting the information in tables (i.e., rows and columns of information).
- To interact with this, there is a **scripting language** called SQL (Structured Query Language), which was relatively easy to learn.
- It was not until the late 1970s that relational databases were commercialized, led by the pioneering efforts of Oracle.
- While relational databases proved to be quite effective, there were still some nagging issues. Perhaps the biggest was `data sprawl`. Another problem was that relational databases were **not cheap**. And as new technologies came on the scene, such as cloud computing and **real-time** mobile applications, it became more difficult to process the data.

---

- In the meantime, there have been new approaches that have gone against the model for relational databases. They include offerings like `MySQL` (which is now owned by Oracle) and `PostgreSQL`. Yet these systems did not get enough traction in the enterprise.
- But there is one next-generation database technology that has done so: `NoSQL`. It also began as an open source project and saw tremendous growth. As of now, `MongoDB` has 14,200 customers across 100 countries and there have been over 70 million downloads.
- Where relational databases are highly structured, a `NoSQL` system is quite **flexible**. It’s based on a document model that can handle huge amounts of data at petabyte scale.
- And going forward, there is likely to be much innovation with database technology. Yet relational databases will remain the majority of what companies use – which also means that this will also be what RPA interacts with as well.

---

#### APIs (Application Programming Interfaces)

- `API` – which is the acronym for “`application programming interface`” – is software that connects two applications.
  - For example: let’s say you want to create a weather app. To get access to the data, you can setup an API, which often is straightforward, such as by putting together a few lines of code to make data requests (say, for the city). By doing this, you will increase the speed of the development.
- `APIs` are pervasive in enterprise environments since they are so effective. They also have different structures. Although, the most common is a `REST (representational state transfer)` API.
- It’s true that APIs can be used as a form of automation.
- The technology requires having people with technical backgrounds. The development of an API can take time and require complex integration.
- There is also the need for **ongoing testing**. However, there are third-party services that can help out. There must be a focus on **maintaining an API** (it’s not uncommon for an API to break if there is a change in the structure).
- APIs can still have bugs and glitches, especially when in complex IT environments.
- Because of the difficulties, RPA has proven to be a very **attractive alternative**. Again, the development is much easier and there is less of a need for integration.
- An RPA platform can be a vehicle for **delivering advanced APIs** within the enterprise.

---

#### AI (Artificial Intelligence)

- A **typical** RPA system does **not** have much AI (Artificial Intelligence). The main reason is that there is a **literal** carrying out of tasks, which does **not require any smart system**. But as AI gets more powerful and accessible, RPA will increasingly start to use this powerful technology – which should greatly enhance the outcomes.
- AI: It’s software that **ingests large amounts of data** that is processed with sophisticated algorithms that help **answer** questions, **detect** patterns, or learn. AI is actually made up of a variety of subcategories
- `Machine Learning` : This is where a computer can learn and improve by processing data **without having to be explicitly programmed**. Machine learning is actually one of the oldest forms of AI and uses **traditional statistical methods** like k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) and the naive Bayes classifier.

- `Deep learning` became a major force in AI. Some of the important factors for this included the enormous **growth in data**, the use of **GPUs** (graphics processing units) that provided for ultrafast **parallel processing**, and innovation in techniques like **backpropagation**.
- Deep learning is about using so-called **neural networks** – such as **recurrent neural networks** (RNNs), **convolutional neural networks** (CNNs), and **generative adversarial networks** (GANs) – to find **patterns** that humans often cannot detect.

---

- `NLP (natural language processing)`
  - This is AI that helps **understand conversations**. The most notable examples of this include `Siri`, Cortana, and Alexa.
  - But there are also many chatbots that focus on specific uses cases (say, with providing medical advice).

---

## Components of RPA

- Any Robotics process automation platform provides some basic components, which together build the platform.
- The following are the basic or core components of RPA:
  - **Recorder**
  - Development **Studio**
  - **Plugin**/Extension
  - Bot **Runner**
  - **Control** Center

---

### recorder

- The `recorder` is the part of the **development studio** that developers **use to configure the Robots**.
- It is like the `macro recorder` in Excel, the `bot recorder` in any platform, records steps.
- It **records mouse and keyboard movements** on the UI and this **recording** can be **replayed** to do the same steps again and again.
- This enables rapid automation. This component has played a very big role in the popularity of RPA.

---

### development studio

- The `development studio` is **used by developers** to **create Robot configuration** or **train** the Robots.
- Using the development studio, a set of **instructions and decision-making logic** is coded for Robots to execute.
- Some platforms provide **flow-charting capabilities** such as Visio, so it becomes very easy to plot steps in a process, whereas some other platforms require coding.
- In most studios, in order to do commercial development, developers need to have a fair amount of knowledge of programming,
  - Example, loops, if else, variable assignment, and so on.

---

### Extensions and plugins

- Most platforms offer many **plugins and extensions** to **ease the development** and running of bots.
- In many applications, such as `Java SAP`, it is not easy to individually identify controls of the UI through traditional techniques.
- RPA vendors have developed plugins and extensions to help with these issues.

---

### Bot Runner

- This is also referred to as the `Robot`, other components make it run.
- A machine allows to **run the bot**. The status of bot execution is **reported** back to the control room.
- `BotFarm`
  - It is an **on-demand enterprise-grade platform** for RPA bots. The platform **scales the capacity** of the digital workforce by **deploying bots anytime**, anywhere **with a single click**. It can create, deploy and handle thousands of software bots and can ensure resilience, elasticity, and scalability.

---

### Control Centre

- The objective of the control room is to **provide Robot management capabilities**.
- It **monitors** and **controls** a Robot's operation in a network
- It can be used to **start/stop Robots**, make **schedules** for them, **maintain** and publish code, **redeploy** Robots to different tasks, and **manage** licenses and **credentials**.

---

## RPA Platforms

- The RPA vendor market has been showing continual and steady growth.
- While the largest market is the US, followed by the UK, the market in Asia Pacific Countries(APAC) is also showing considerable progress. Successful pilot projects and increased customer satisfaction among the early adopters of RPA will encourage new players to adopt this technology.
- There is **growing demand** for RPA, especially in industries that need large scale deployments.
- The major markets for RPA are **banking** and **finance**, **healthcare** and **pharmaceuticals**, **telecom** and **media**, and **retail**.

---

- **Automation Anywhere**
  - `Automation Anywhere` helps to **automate business processes for companies**. They focus on RPA, **cognitive data** (machine learning and natural language processing), and **business analytics**.
- Their bots are capable of handling both **structured** as well as **unstructured data**.
- The system has three basic components:

1. A **development client** for the **creation** of a bot
2. A **runtime environment** for the **deployment** of a bot
3. A **centralized command system** for **handling** multiple bots, **analyzing** their performance

---

### **UiPath**

- UiPath is an RPA technology **vendor** who designs and **delivers software** that helps automate businesses.
- The RPA platform consists of three parts:
  - UiPath **Studio** to design the processes
  - UiPath **Robot** to **automate tasks** designed in UiPath Studio
  - UiPath **Orchestrator** to **run and manage** the processes

---

### **Blue Prism**

- Blue Prism aims to provide **automation** that enterprises can use according to their needs.
- Blue Prism aims to do this by providing **automation that is scalable, configurable, and centrally managed.**
- It **sells its software** through its partners, some of which are Accenture, Capgemini, Deloitte, Digital Workforce Nordic, HPE, HCL, IBM, TCS, Tech Mahindra, Thoughtonomy, and Wipro

---

### **Microsoft Power Automate**

- Previously known as `Microsoft Flow` is a software tool that allows users to create automated workflows between various apps and services.
- Designed to help users **automate** mundane, **manual processes** in both Microsoft **Office** 365 and Microsoft **Azure**, with the final goal being boosting productivity.
- `Power Automate `is enabled by default in all Office 365 applications and comes with about 150 standard connectors. The tool offers an equal number of premium connectors available for purchase to increase automation capabilities.
