# RPA - wk03

[Back](../rpa.md)

- [RPA - wk03](#rpa---wk03)
  - [Process Mining](#process-mining)
    - [5 Process Mining Steps](#5-process-mining-steps)
      - [Process Discovery](#process-discovery)
      - [Process Analysis](#process-analysis)
      - [Process Optimization](#process-optimization)
  - [Calculate ROI](#calculate-roi)
      - [Process Automation](#process-automation)
      - [Process Monitoring \& Prediction](#process-monitoring--prediction)
    - [Process Mining Examples](#process-mining-examples)
      - [Insurance Companies](#insurance-companies)
      - [Healthcare](#healthcare)
      - [Financial Services and Banking](#financial-services-and-banking)
      - [Manufacturing and Supply Chain](#manufacturing-and-supply-chain)

---

## Process Mining

- `Process mining`
  - a technique to **analyze**, **improve**, and **track** processes.
  - one of the **practical business applications** of discovery, **extracting data** from your systems to help you understand, **monitor** and **improve** real processes.
- It uses **event log data** to accurately **create process models** showing how specific processes are executed and **comparing** that to how they **should** run.
  - These insights can **help decision-makers** uncover efficiencies and opportunities for better business processes.

---

- `Process mining`
  - doesn’t just show you **how your processes run**; it highlights **variations**, **inefficiencies** and other areas for **improvement**.
  - can also help you assess **how eligible new processes** are for automation, so you can keep **scaling** your `intelligent automation (IA)`.
  - a key tool in the process science field.
- Taking a **data-driven approach** to analyzing, **improving** and **monitoring** business processes, it fits within several other business disciplines.
- It’s often used to select and **optimize processes** for `robotic process automation (RPA)` and can play a key role in business process management (BPM).

---

- Benefits
  - Survey processes everywhere across the enterprise—at high scale and **low human effort**
  - Analyze processes fully and accurately based on the **facts**
  - Zero in on **bottlenecks**, **deviations** and **inefficient** processes that should be rethought or automated
  - Continuously **monitor** processes and measure **improvements**
  - **Simplify** compliance, with **full audit trails**
  - Use in **any industry**:
    - **banking** and **financial** services, insurance, manufacturing, or healthcare and beyond​
  - Analyze virtually any process in **any functional area**:
    - contact centers, purchase-to-pay, order-to-cash, and more​

---

### 5 Process Mining Steps

- Process **Discovery**
- Process **Analysis**
- Process **Optimization**
- Process **Automation**
- Process **Monitoring** and **Prediction**

---

#### Process Discovery

- Your business will need to **analyze process data** and **observe** how employees **perform various tasks**.
  - You’ll focus on **what files** get opened, the keys pressed, **data** transferred, **items** clicked and so on.
- Some companies use `process mapping` to **visualize** what goes into completing a task.
  - From there you can determine **which tasks are suitable** for automation and which automations should be **prioritized** for the best ROI.
- Every enterprise system—like SAP, Salesforce or Oracle—**captures event data** related to your processes.
- Process mining reads this data and **transforms** it into an `event log`.
- This `event log` contains **three key** pieces of information vital for process mining:
  - a **time stamp**,
  - a **case ID**,
  - and an **activity**.

---

- Process Discovery versus Mining
- While `process discovery` focuses on **observing** employee actions and **determining how tasks** are performed, `process mining` relies on **analyzing** `event logs` from existing systems to **gain insights** into process patterns and bottlenecks.
- In other words, `process discovery` delves into the **human side of tasks** and the **manual steps** involved, whereas `process mining` looks at the **digital footprints** left by processes in your IT systems.
- Combining both techniques can provide a comprehensive view of your processes, paving the way for successful RPA implementation..

---

- Steps in Process Discovery
  - 1. **Consult stakeholders and gain support**:
    - Engage with employees and management to **gather feedback** on the proposed automation, **address concerns** and ensure a smooth transition.
  - 2. **Define your goals and objectives**:
    - Before you begin process discovery you should take a step back and **determine what you want to achieve** with RPA, such as cost reduction, improved efficiency or better customer service.
  - 3. **Identify rule-based and repetitive tasks**:
    - **Pinpoint tasks** that follow a set of rules and **require minimal human judgment** or intervention, making them ideal candidates for RPA.
  - 4. **Gather and document processes**:
    - **Identify the processes** across various departments and roles, and **document the detailed steps** involved in each process.
  - 5. **Assess process complexity**:
    - Assess the **complexity** and variability of the processes to understand their suitability for automation.
  - 6. **Evaluate process volume and frequency**:
    - Determine the **volume of transactions** and **frequency of the processes** to prioritize automation efforts in high-impact areas.
  - 7. **Estimate potential ROI**:
    - **Calculate the expected return on investment** from automating specific processes, taking into account the costs of RPA implementation, maintenance and any process improvements required.
  - 8. **Prioritize automations**:
    - Once your ROI is calculated, you can create an **order of what automations** will be created first.
  - 9. **Pilot and refine**:
    - **Implement** RPA **on a small scale** for the selected processes, **monitor the results** and make any necessary **adjustments** before scaling up.
  - 10. **Scale and optimize**:
    - **Expand** RPA implementation to more processes and consider the broader `intelligent automation (IA)` suite of technologies to evolve your automation, continuously monitoring, optimizing and iterating as needed to maximize the benefits.

---

#### Process Analysis

- `Process analysis`
  - is where you develop an **understanding** of process **performance** based on actual **data**.
    - **Insights** gained from `process analytics` may include **optimal process paths**, paths for the **greatest** return on investment (ROI) and **causes** of variations.
- This is also the stage where you can **better understand** your processes by **visualizing** them through `process mapping`.
- Some platforms include process simulations, and with these, you can also **visualize** target business outcomes.
- Large business organizations produce and store vast amounts of data in their day-to-day operations, and **filtering** through that information **manually** can be extremely time-consuming and costly.
- `business process analysis(BPA)` reduces waste by **turning** that **data** into a cohesive, structured set of **insights**.
  - This **visual model** will help you see where you can grow your business and increase your return on investment (ROI).

---

- Most **legacy** processes have the **potential** to be **optimized**, and a `business process analysis` will help you determine what and where that **potential** is so you can achieve a myriad of benefits such as:
  - Increased **ROI**
  - Making **existing** “as-is” business processes **more efficient** by **identifying faster pathways** to good results
  - Showing what's **currently working** and where a business process **improvement** can be made
  - **Saving money** by **reducing redundancies**, such as eliminating unnecessary or repetitive procedures
  - **Lowing** the risk of human **errors**
  - **Monitoring any changes** in a process, such as lowered customer engagement, so you can stay on top of anything affecting your overall business value
  - Finding where employees are **less engaged**
  - Exposing **bottlenecks**
  - Setting up processes that will **help further automation** features and scalability

---

#### Process Optimization

- Using the **data** you’ve gathered in the `discovery` and `analysis` phases, you can now make **changes to your processes** to prepare them for automation.
- This is also where you **select the most important processes** on which to place your focus.
- The systematic approach of analyzing and improving business processes to achieve maximum efficiency, effectiveness, and quality.
  - The goal of process optimization is to **continuously reduce waste, increase productivity**, and ultimately **improve** an organization's bottom line.

---

- Methodologies
  - `Customer Operation Performance Center (COPC)`
    - This framework **evaluates benefits** in terms of **cost savings**, **revenue** gains, **performance** gains and **intangible** benefits.
  - `Six Sigma`
    - It is a **data-driven technique** that seeks to **drive out variations** in the process so that **customers get a predictable experience**.
  - `Kaizen`
    - The Kaizen philosophy seeks to **bring about change** for the **better**.
  - `Lean`
    - It promotes techniques for running a process such that **waste can be eliminated**.
  - `DMAIC`
    - DMAIC stands for the `Define, Measure, Analyse, Improve and Control` sequence of steps that this technique proposes.
  - `PDCA`
    - PDCA stands for `Plan, Do, Check, Act` and is another popular technique used in many companies for process optimization.

---

## Calculate ROI

- To calculate the ROI of the process improvement, you need to compare the **benefits** and **costs** over a specific period of time.
- The simplest formula for ROI is: `ROI = (benefits - costs) / costs * 100%`
- This formula gives you the **percentage of return on your investment** in the process improvement.
  - For example, if you invested $10,000 in a process improvement that generated $15,000 in benefits over a year, your ROI would be:
    - `ROI = ($15,000 - $10,000) / $10,000 * 100% = 50%`
- This means that for every dollar you invested in the process improvement, you gained 50 cents in return.

---

#### Process Automation

- At this stage, your **process data** can be **exported** for RPA.
- With insights gained in previous steps, you can **choose the ‘happy path’** with the **least resistance** and **highest ROI** for **automation**.

---

#### Process Monitoring & Prediction

- Some process mining solutions will **monitor** every process instance.
  - This is usually only available with full process intelligence.
- The platform will **issue alerts** or **automatically act** when **unusual process** behavior occurs.
- Some platforms can even **offer predictive analytics** to further enhance your process planning strategy.
- Some Common **Platforms** that have Process Monitoring
  - BluePrism
  - Mulesoft
  - Power Automate
  - Automate Anywhere

---

### Process Mining Examples

- Insurance Companies
- Healthcare
- Financial Services and Banking
- Manufacturing and Supply Chain

---

#### Insurance Companies

- Mapping the **claims management process**, from a customer getting in touch through to pay out.
- Showing how many **sub-processes** in the wider claims process are still managed manually, and how many can be automated. This also shows which sub-processes could **run simultaneously** rather than within a chain.
- **Improving customer service** by dealing with cases **quicker** thanks to streamlined customer care processes.
  - With faster processes, staff can spend **more time on customers**.

---

#### Healthcare

- **Visualizing processes** such as initial evaluations and diagnoses, patient check-in, billing, medication management, treatment and ongoing care.
- **Identifying bottlenecks** in healthcare processes and creating improvements.
- **Identifying** why some processes **take longer** than others.
- **Analyzing** the processes for two **similar care events**, helping you **compare** regions, departments or staff.
- Highlighting to **cost management** the incidents and tasks that **slow down** and/or add **extra expense** to care processes.

---

#### Financial Services and Banking

- Reducing **compliance and regulatory risks**.
  - By better understanding your processes, you can **reduce** opportunities for **human error** and **improve the accuracy and speed** of sanctions checks, for example.
- **Improving** transparency, **speed** and **accuracy** of **checks**.
  - By managing processes through process mining and automation, you also **create audit trails** to ease future investigations.
- **Speeding up loan processing**.
  - By streamlining your **loan decision** and **granting processes**, you can better keep up with modern FinTechs.

---

#### Manufacturing and Supply Chain

- Quickly identifying and removing **bottlenecks in the supply chain process** by building a comprehensive view of supply processes.
  - This helps organizations be better **prepared for the unexpected**, such as **shipment delays**.
- **Optimizing the supply chain** by analyzing a **real-time view** of how goods and components move between different parts of the supply chain.
  - This helps manufacturers operate a lean, **just-in-time inventory model** to reduce costs and stay agile.
- Pinpointing deviations from agreed KPIs with **alerts warning manufacturers** so they can **communicate** with relevant parties and keep them informed on progress.
- **Forecasting** when machinery will need repairs or replacements by monitoring data from SCADA, IoT and maintenance systems to build a more accurate cost analysis and keep storage of spare parts to a minimum.
- **Tracking deliveries in real-time** by monitoring the goods at every stage, from shipment to delivery, and keeping customers in the loop on progress.
