# Data Tech: wk04

[Back](../../data_tech.md)

- [Data Tech: wk04](#data-tech-wk04)
  - [Data Importing and Exporting](#data-importing-and-exporting)
  - [CSV File](#csv-file)
  - [Database Design](#database-design)
    - [Tables](#tables)
    - [Attributes (Columns)](#attributes-columns)
    - [Rows](#rows)
    - [One Subject Per Table](#one-subject-per-table)
    - [Data Types](#data-types)
    - [NULL Values](#null-values)
    - [Primary Key](#primary-key)
  - [Database Properties](#database-properties)
  - [Common Rules](#common-rules)

---

- Understand the purpose of importing and exporting data
- Understand a CSV file
- Model Importing and Exporting data

## Data Importing and Exporting

- There are several **scenarios** where you may want to import or export data using SQL:

  - **Migrating** data **between** databases:

    - If you are moving from one database platform to another, you may need to **export** data from your current database and **import** it into the new one.
    - This could involve exporting data as a **CSV** file, for example, and then using SQL commands to import the data into the new database.

  - **Sharing** data with other applications:

    - You may want to **export** data from your database to be **used in other applications**.
    - e.g., you may want to **export** customer data to a CRM system or financial data to a **reporting tool**.
    - In this case, you could use SQL to extract the relevant data and then export it as a CSV or other file format that can be used by the other application.

  - **Backing up** and restoring data:

    - It is important to regularly **back up** your database to ensure that you do **not lose** any data **in the event of a system failure**.
    - e.g., You could use SQL to **export your data to a backup file**, which can then be used to **restore** your database if necessary.

  - **Data analysis** and **reporting**:
    - If you want to **analyze** your data using **statistical** software, you may need to export it as a CSV file or other format that can be read by the software.
    - You could use SQL to extract the relevant data and then export it in the required format.

---

## CSV File

- `Comma Separated Values(CSV)`
  - a type of plain text file that **stores tabular data in a structured format**.
  - In a CSV file, each **line** represents a **row** of data, and each value within a row is **separated by a comma**.
  - Typically, the first row of a CSV file contains **column headers**, which describe the contents of each column.

---

- Understand parts of a relational database
- Model table, column and row creation through Object Explorer

## Database Design

- `Database design`
  - the process of creating a **well-structured database** that can efficiently store and manage data.
- `database`
  - a **collection of data** that is **organized** in a way that allows easy access, retrieval, and manipulation of the data.
- The design of a database involves several steps that aim to ensure that the database is reliable, efficient, and scalable.

---

### Tables

- Relational databases stores information **in tables**.

- `Tables`
  - **database objects** that **contain all the data** in a database.
  - Should relate to a single “subject” (ie. Student, Customer, Order, etc.)
  - Every table will have one or more `columns`.

---

### Attributes (Columns)

- In `SQL Server` attributes are referred to as `“columns”`,
- Attributes are the **individual pieces of information** about our “subject” (table).
  - For example, a Student table may include the following attributes:
    - FirstName
    - LastName
    - StudentNumber
    - Address
    - City
    - Etc
- Rules for **attributes**:
  - Must **represent a single value only**.
  - Each column must **store only 1 type of data** (ie. the “FirstName” attribute in our Student table will contain “text” data only)

---

### Rows

- `Rows`
  - Can also be referred to as `“records”`.
  - A row is **one complete set of information** related to a table.
  - In our Student example, if I have 43 students in my Class List then I would have 43 records in my Student table as each record represents 1 student.

---

### One Subject Per Table

- Remember, only 1 subject per table.
- For example, imagine I want to keep track of all my students for all my courses. I would not have one StudentCourse table. I would have 2 tables:

  - Student
  - Course

- **All** information **related to directly** to students would belong in the Student table (ie StudentNumber) and **all** information **related directly** to Course (ie CourseName) would belong in the Course table.

---

### Data Types

- One of the rules for relational databases is that we **must assign a data type to attributes** when we create them.
- When our users enter data into the database, the database will **verify** they are entering the **right type** of data according to the data type selected and **error out** if we try to use an **incorrect data type**.

  - For example, the database will trigger an error and not save your update if you attempt to save text values into numeric fields.

- **Numeric**
  - Be sure all your numeric are actually numeric not text.
- **Dates**
  - Dates are a specific **data type** in a database and is handled differently then, say, a text field with “Apr 29, 2019” entered in it, so always use date data type.

---

### NULL Values

- `NULL`
  - A field with a NULL value is a field with no value or no information, an absence of data.
  - A column will only be NULL if no one has entered a value in the column yet.
  - **doesn’t** mean a “zero” or a “blank” in a database column.

---

### Primary Key

- `Primary Key(s)`

  - attributes (columns) that act as a **Unique Identifier** for each row (instance) of a table.

- Once you define a column as the Primary Key the database will ensure the **value** of the Primary Key is **unique** for each row in the database.

- **Rules for Primary Keys**:
  - **Every table** should (good database design) **have a** `primary key`
  - Primary key must be **unique** (cannot have the same values repeated on multiple rows) and **not null** (null – “empty” - values are not permitted)
  - Primary key **can** be **comprised** of **more than one** attribute
  - These are known as “**composite keys**”

---

## Database Properties

- `Collation`核对

  - defines **how characters are interpreted**.
  - We are using the default `Latin1_General_CI_AS`.
  - This uses a generic Latin alphabet sort order, is **case insensitive** (`CI`) and **accent sensitive** (`AS`).

- `Recovery Model`

  - This affects **how long transactions are retained** in the **transaction log**.
  - By **default**, it is set to `Full`,
    - **all** transactions are stored **until the database is backed up**, enabling a **full recovery** in case of database failure.
    - the log file will **continue to grow** until the database is backed up.
    - This is the most common setting for the type of database we will be creating in the first half of this course.
    - In Simple recovery, **old** transactions are **automatically purged** from the end of the log once there is **no more available space** in the log file.
    - This **prevents** log growth for databases that do not require disaster recovery. This is a **common setting** for the type of database we will be creating in the second half of this course.

- `ANSI NULL Default`

  - Determines if `NULL` logic will follow the **ANSI** standard by default.

- `Concatenate Null Yields Null`
  - Similar to ANSI NULL, this affects how NULL strings are treated and whether they comply with the ANSI standard for NULL.

---

## Common Rules

- **Tables**
  - Each table must have a **primary key**.
  - Tables are related using **foreign keys**. The foreign key always goes on the "**many side**" of the relationship.
  - Many to Many tables require the use of a `junction table`
- **Attributes (Columns)**
  - Attribute names "should **not**" include **spaces** or **special characters** with the **exception** of an **underscore**.
  - Attributes should be **ordered** (within a table) from **most** to **least** important (ie. a PK key is usually first attribute in a table)
- **Normalization**
  - Normalization is the process of breaking apart tables **to reduce modification anomalies**
  - `1st Normal Form`:
    - If there are repeating groups of information (like ingredient_1, ingredient_2, Ingredient_3, etc.) you MUST normalize.
  - `3rd Normal Form`:
    - If there are columns that are **not fully dependent** (aka ‘Transitive Dependency’) on the primary key you SHOULD CONSIDER normalizing.
  - Numeric values, date attributes and name/address typically do not apply to third normal form design considerations. (ie. De-Normalization)
  - In a physical table, if you see **information repeating** within a column, it is most likely a **violation** of third normal form.
