# Doc - Wk06

[Back](../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk06](#doc---wk06)
  - [Capturing and Documenting System Information](#capturing-and-documenting-system-information)
    - [Data Modelling](#data-modelling)
    - [Data Modeling - Types](#data-modeling---types)
    - [ERD (Entity Relationship Diagrams)](#erd-entity-relationship-diagrams)
    - [ERD - Notations](#erd---notations)
    - [UML – Unified Modeling Language](#uml--unified-modeling-language)

---

Capture and document a system.
Describe data modeling and the different types of data models. Understanding existing data models and create data models.
Understand UML.

## Capturing and Documenting System Information

### Data Modelling

- A `conceptual data model` is a **representation** of organization data.
- The purpose of the data model is to show
  - **Rules** about the meaning of the data
  - **Association** between data objects (relationships)

---

### Data Modeling - Types

- There are 3 **types** of data modeling. You can think of them as **levels**.
  - `Conceptual Data Model`:
    - organized view of the data and it’s relationships, but **very little detail** on the **actual data structure**.
  - `Logical Data Model`:
    - defines the **structure of the data**, including data **elements** and **relationships** between them.
  - `Physical Data Model`
    - defines a database specific **implementation** of the data model. May include elements such as column keys, constraints etc

---

### ERD (Entity Relationship Diagrams)

- ERD is a very common diagramming technique used for data modelling. It uses some common elements:
  - `Entities` – tables in your database.
  - `Attributes` – **information** used to **describe** each table, such as column names, **properties** etc.
  - `Relationships`: – how tables are **related to each other**.

---

### ERD - Notations

- `ERD` can different “notations” for diagramming that have slight differences in symbols used.
- We will be using **crowsfoot notation** in this course, it gets it’s name from the fact when displaying relationships between tables, the symbol used for the **“many” side** of the relationship resembles a crowsfoot.
- See our “ERD Symbols” document in this week’s content for display of symbols related to relationships in ERD diagrams for crowsfoot notation.

---

- ERD can different “notations” for diagramming that have slight differences in symbols used.
- We will be using crowsfoot notation in this course, it gets it’s name from the fact when displaying relationships between tables, the symbol used for the “many” side of the relationship resembles a crowsfoot.
- See our “ERD Symbols” document in this week’s content for display of symbols related to relationships in ERD diagrams for crowsfoot notation.

---

### UML – Unified Modeling Language

- `UML` is a **standardized modeling language**, consisting of a set of standard diagrams that can be used for visualizing software systems.
- We be using our textbook, Appendix A, as reference for this part of the course materials and going into more detail on the next set of slides related specifically to UML.
