# Data Tech: wk09

[Back](../data_tech.md)

- [Data Tech: wk09](#data-tech-wk09)
  - [SQL DDL](#sql-ddl)
    - [CREATE Statement](#create-statement)
    - [ALTER Statement](#alter-statement)
    - [DROP Statement](#drop-statement)
    - [TRUNCATE Statement](#truncate-statement)
    - [CONSTRAINT Statement](#constraint-statement)
    - [Summary](#summary)
  - [SQL Constraints](#sql-constraints)
    - [Primary Key](#primary-key)
    - [Foreign Key](#foreign-key)
    - [NOT NULL](#not-null)
    - [UNIQUE](#unique)
    - [CHECK](#check)
    - [DEFAULT](#default)
    - [Summary](#summary-1)

---

Understand what DDL is
Understand the various DDL statements and their uses
Practice DDL statements

## SQL DDL

- `SQL DDL (Data Definition Language)`

  - a subset of SQL used to define and manage the structure of databases.

- DDL allows you to **create**, **modify**, and **delete** database **objects** such as tables, indexes, views, and constraints.

- It focuses on the **schema-level** operations rather than manipulating data.

---

- Common DDL Statements
  - CREATE
  - ALTER
  - DROP
  - TRUNCATE
  - CONSTRAINT

---

### CREATE Statement

- The `CREATE statement` is used to **create** database **objects**.

- The most commonly used objects created with CREATE are **tables**, **indexes**, **views**, and **sequences**.

- Syntax:

```sql
CREATE object_type object_name (
    column1 data_type, column2 data_type,
    ...
)

- Example:
CREATE TABLE Students (
    id INT PRIMARY KEY, name VARCHAR(50)
);
```

---

### ALTER Statement

- The `ALTER` statement is used to **modify** the **structure** of existing database **objects**.

- You can use ALTER to **add, modify, or drop columns** from a table, modify **constraints**, or **rename** objects.

- Syntax:

```sql
ALTER object_type object_name
[ADD | MODIFY | DROP] column_name data_type

- Example:
ALTER TABLE Customers
ADD COLUMN email VARCHAR(100)
```

---

### DROP Statement

- The DROP statement is used to **delete** existing database **objects**.

- It **permanently removes** objects from the database.

  - Be cautious when using DROP as it **cannot be undone**.

- Syntax:

```sql
DROP object_type object_name

- Example:

DROP TABLE Orders;
```

---

### TRUNCATE Statement

- The TRUNCATE statement is used to **remove all rows** from a table.

- Unlike the `DELETE` statement, which removes specific rows, `TRUNCATE` **deletes all rows** in one operation.

- It is **faster** and **uses fewer system resources** than DELETE.

- Syntax:

```sql
TRUNCATE TABLE table_name

-- Example:
TRUNCATE TABLE Orders
```

---

### CONSTRAINT Statement

- The CONSTRAINT statement is used to **define rules and restrictions on the data** in a table.
- Constraints ensure **data integrity** and **enforce business rules**.
- Common types of constraints include **primary key**, **foreign key**, **unique**, and **check** constraints.

- Syntax:

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name
ADD CONSTRAINT constraint_name constraint_type (column_name);

- Example:
ALTER TABLE Orders
ADD CONSTRAINT fk_customer FOREIGN KEY (customer_id) REFERENCES Customers(id);
```

---

### Summary

- `SQL DDL (Data Definition Language)`

  - is used to define and manage the **structure of databases**.

- DDL statements include CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE, and CONSTRAINT.

- These statements allow you to create, modify, delete, and enforce **rules** on database objects.

---

Understand what SQL Constraints are
Uses of constraints
Model and practice SQL Constraints

## SQL Constraints

- `SQL constraints`

  - **rules** that define and enforce certain **conditions on the data** in a database.

- Constraints ensure **data integrity** by restricting the types of values that can be inserted or updated in a table.

- They help maintain the **consistency** and **accuracy** of data.

- Common SQL Constraints
  - PRIMARY KEY
  - FOREIGN KEY
  - NOT NULL
  - UNIQUE
  - CHECK
  - DEFAULT

---

### Primary Key

- The `PRIMARY KEY` constraint **uniquely identifies** each record in a table.

- It combines the `NOT NULL` and `UNIQUE` constraints.

- A table can have **only one** primary key, and it is used as a **reference** for other tables.

- This constraint can be done at
  - **column level**
  - **table level**

```sql
-- Column level:
CREATE TABLE Students (
  id INT PRIMARY KEY
  , name VARCHAR(50)
  , age INT NOT NULL
  , email VARCHAR(100) UNIQUE
)

-- Table level:
-- CREATE TABLE statement immediately following the last column name in the list, as follows:
CREATE TABLE test_customer(
  CustID NUMERIC (6,0)
  , Cust_name VARCHAR2 (20)
  , CONSTRAINT PK_testCustomer_CustID  PRIMARY KEY (CustID)
);
```

- Which is better?
  - If we violate a table level constraint the **error message** that is generated is **more descriptive** (especially with certain database engines, such as Oracle) and constraint name is **not system generated**.

---

### Foreign Key

- The FOREIGN KEY constraint **establishes a relationship** between two tables.

- It **ensures** that the values in a column (or a set of columns) of one table **match** the values in the primary key of another table.

- By identifying FK’s, we can ensure **prevent “orphan records”** (records that do not have a related record in the other table in the relationship).
- We refer to this as `referential integrity`.
- `Referential integrity`
  - the database will ensure that whenever a foreign key **value is used it must reference a valid, existing value** in the parent table.

---

- **Foreign Key – Table Deletion**

- Once we add an FK to a table, if we try to drop (delete) the table we will get this error:
  - `Could not drop object 'Orders' because it is referenced by a FOREIGN KEY constraint.`
- To avoid this error, prior to dropping our tables we can **drop any FK constraints** we may have on the table.

---

### NOT NULL

- The `NOT NULL` constraint ensures that a column **cannot have NULL (empty) values.**
- It enforces that the column **must contain a value** for every row in the table.
- It can only be created at the **column level**.

---

### UNIQUE

- The UNIQUE constraint ensures that the values in a column (or a set of columns) are **unique** across all rows in a table.
- It **prevents duplicate values** from being inserted or updated.
- It can be created at
  - **column level**
  - **table level**

---

### CHECK

- The CHECK constraint **defines a condition that values** in a column must satisfy.
- It allows you to **specify a logical expression** or a range of **acceptable values** for a column.
- Both:
  - **column level**
  - **table level**

---

### DEFAULT

- The DEFAULT constraint **provides a default value** for a column **when no value is specified** during an insert operation.
- It ensures that the column has a value even **if it is not explicitly provided**.
- only column-level

```sql
--Example:
CREATE TABLE Employees (
  id INT PRIMARY KEY
  , name VARCHAR(50)
  , salary DECIMAL(10,2) CHECK (salary > 0)
  , department_id INT DEFAULT 1
)
```

---

### Summary

- SQL constraints **enforce rules on the data** in a database.
- **Common** types of constraints include NOT NULL, UNIQUE, PRIMARY KEY, FOREIGN KEY, CHECK, and DEFAULT.
- Constraints ensure data **integrity** and maintain the **accuracy** and **consistency** of data.

