# Doc - Wk01

[Back](../../doc.md)

- [Doc - Wk01](#doc---wk01)
  - [Enterprise System Architecture](#enterprise-system-architecture)
    - [Technical Systems Analyst](#technical-systems-analyst)
    - [Five Components in system](#five-components-in-system)
      - [Hardware](#hardware)
      - [Software](#software)
      - [Data](#data)
      - [Processes](#processes)
      - [People](#people)
      - [Case of 5 components](#case-of-5-components)
    - [System Concepts](#system-concepts)
    - [Developing Information Systems and the Systems Development Life Cycle](#developing-information-systems-and-the-systems-development-life-cycle)
    - [Documenting the System](#documenting-the-system)
      - [System Architecture Enterprise Diagrams](#system-architecture-enterprise-diagrams)
    - [ERD Diagram](#erd-diagram)
    - [Swim Lane Diagrams](#swim-lane-diagrams)

---

Define a system in the context of information systems and the components of a system.
Describe the role of the technical system analyst in information systems development
Describe in detail various types of system configurations and create diagrams detailing these systems and their individual components.
Describe at a high level various of types of diagrams to document systems (system architecture enterprise, UML, ERD)

## Enterprise System Architecture

### Technical Systems Analyst

- `Technical Systems Analyst`
  - A good starting point is to discuss the importance of an organization’s information system. The technical System Analyst’s **role** is to develop and support that system.
  - A technical systems analyst is a **problem solver**. The challenge of tackling a problem or opportunity, designing a solution, and implementing a viable, valuable, and improved information system has much appeal for a lot of people.
  - Your focus will be on **hardware**, underlying **software** and **database structure**.
  - Additionally, the results of the analyst’s work directly impact how the organization operates and whether or not the organization can achieve and maintain a competitive advantage.
  - In addition, the analyst is paid quite well!!

---

### Five Components in system

- In terms of IT, a `system`
  - an interrelated **set of components** used for collecting, creating, storing, processing and the distribution of **information**.
- **Analysis of the current state** of the system is often a first step in determining if there are any problems with the system and if it can be improved upon.
- As part of this analysis, we need to be able to identify the core **components** or parts of a system, which fall under these broad categories:
  - 1. Hardware
  - 2. Software
  - 3. Data
  - 4. Processes
  - 5. People

---

#### Hardware

- `Hardware`

  - all the **physical components** that is part of a computer system.

- Some examples include:
  - Computer Components
    - CPU, Hard Drive, RAM
  - Computers / Devices
    - Personal Computers, Laptops
    - Servers, Mainframes
    - Tablets, iPads
  - Network hardware
    - Routers, Switches

---

#### Software

- `Software`

  - a set of **instructions** (programs) that tell a computer **how to work**.

- **two main types** of software:

  - System Software
  - Application Software

---

- `System Software`

  - **software** designed to run all of the **supporting processing** for a user to use a computer.
  - Such as the **operating** system, supporting **game engines**, server **search engines** etc.

- Examples of System Software:
  - `Operating Systems`
    - most critical piece of system software, nothing else will run without it.
    - Manages all other software, hardware, memory and processes
      - Windows, MacOS, Unix, Linux (Non-Mobile)
      - iOS (for iPads, iPhones, etc), Android (for Samsung, tablets, etc)
    - `Device Drivers`
      - **control hardware devices** that are attached to a system, making it easier for the device to connect.
        - Motherboard Drivers, Printer Drivers, Sound Card Drivers, etc
    - `Firmware`
      - instructions which are **stored permanently on hardware devices**.
        - BIOS, Computer Peripherals

---

- `Application Software`

  - software used directly by users to **complete user orientated tasks** such as create a spreadsheet, play computer games, listen to music, browse the web etc.

- Examples of Application Software
  - Web Browsers (IE, FireFox, Chrome)
  - Word processors, such as Microsoft Word
  - Spreadsheets, such as Microsoft Excel
  - Software suites, such as Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, etc)
  - Email applications, such as Microsoft Outlook
  - CRM (customer relationship management) software, such as Oracle NetSuite, Salesmate, user.com
  - Banking software (see prezi)

---

#### Data

- `Data`
  - the **actual information** in the system.
  - You can think of data as a collection of facts, such as your name, birthdate, address etc.
- **Databases** allow us to `store`, retrieve and filter this data in an organized, accessible way using software called `Database Management Systems (DBMS)`

- Some examples of Database Management Systems:
  - Relational Databases
    - SQL Server
    - Oracle
    - MySQL
    - Mainframe DB2
  - NoSQL (not only SQL)
    - MongoDB (Used by Google, eBay, Coinbase)
    - Cassandra (Used by Instagram, Netflix, Spotify)

---

#### Processes

- `Procedures` (sometimes referred to as `procedures`)
  - define the **steps** that should be taken to **complete various tasks**, providing guidelines to how we should do things in an efficient way.
  - Much of work in Information Systems involves trying to improve procedures.
  - Each Procedure can be either completely automated, completely manual, or a mix of partially manual and partially automated.

---

#### People

- `people` / `stakeholders`

  - that interact with the system in various ways.
  - People are needed to use, run, support and maintain the system.

- We can **group** these `stakeholders` into **user groups** depending on how they interact with the system (their **role**).
- Examples of some user groups may include:
  - **Customers** – Public customers using online banking to pay bills
  - **Internal End Users** – Front line employees such as bank tellers, cashiers
  - **Infrastructure / System Support** – Employees that develop and support the upkeep and improvements of the systems.
  - **Supervisors/Managers** – Managerial users that support Internal End Users directly with actual transaction processing, such as providing authorization to proceed with transaction over a certain limit.

---

#### Case of 5 components

- Explain how a computer-based information system designed to **process payroll** is a specific example of a system. Be sure to account for all five components of any system in your explanation and give specific examples.

- A **payroll system** can be thought of as a `system` because it is composed of **interrelated subsystems** that work together **to accomplish a purpose**.
- A payroll system has many **components**, including `software` components running on `hardware` to generate paychecks, make direct deposits, generate various internal reports, process timecards, and process various forms and tax returns from the raw `data` available.
- There would be `processes` in place to define how these tasks would be completed and `people` involved to varying degrees to complete.

---

### System Concepts

- Many of these subsystems or components are related.
  - For instance, the reports/reporting component interacts with the tax, paycheck, and direct deposit components.
  - A direct deposit made to an employee’s bank account is an example of an `interface`.
  - Employees, banks, and the local, state, and federal governments are part of the payroll system’s **environment**.
  - Hours worked, number of dependents, and number of sick days are examples of **inputs** to the payroll system
  - The various reports, paychecks, and tax forms are types of **output**.
  - Federal and provincial tax **regulations** are examples of system constraints that we must keep in mind when we define `procedures`.

---

- `Decomposition`
  - The process of **breaking down** a system into **smaller** components
  - Allows the systems analyst to:
    - Break a system into small, **manageable and understandable subsystems**
    - **Focus** on one area **at a time**, without interference from other areas
    - **Concentrate** on component pertinent to one **group** of users without confusing users with unnecessary details
    - **Build** different components at **independent times** and have the help of different analysts

---

- `Systems Integration`
  - Allows hardware and software from **different vendors** to work together
  - Web application client/server model example:
    - Clients – Windows laptops, MS Edge Browser
    - Web Server - UNIX server, Apache web server, PHP
    - Database Server – UNIX server, mySQL

---

- **Role in System Development**
  - Study **problems** and the **needs** of an organization
  - **Determine best approach** to improving organization with a focus on:
    - Hardware
    - Software
    - Data
  - Research and analyze the **current state** of the system.
  - Use this information as a first step towards helping system architects and designers **define their requirements** for new or improved information systems

---

### Developing Information Systems and the Systems Development Life Cycle

- Systems Development Methodology
  - A standard process followed in an organization to conduct all the steps necessary to:
    - 1. Analyze – Business Analyst
    - 2. Design - Technical Systems Analyst
    - 3. Implement - Technical Systems Analyst
    - 4. Maintain – Business Analyst, Technical Systems Analyst

---

- Systems Development Life Cycle Phases
  - 1. Systems Planning and Selection
  - 2. Systems Analysis
    - Study of current procedures and information systems
      - Determine **requirements**
      - Generate **alternative** designs
      - **Compare** alternatives
      - Recommend **best** alternative
  - 3. Systems Design
  - 4. Systems Implementation

---

### Documenting the System

- `Unified Modeling Language (UML)`
  - Once we’ve researched the **current system**, a common method of **conveying** that information is using **UML diagrams**.
  - There are a wide range of UML diagrams that exist that can be used to document almost any process or structure, but we will focus on only a few examples:
    - System Architecture Enterprise Diagrams
    - Entity Relationship Diagrams
    - Swim Lane Diagrams

---

#### System Architecture Enterprise Diagrams

- `System Architecture Enterprise Diagram`
  - This type of diagram **provides an overview at a high level of the entire system**, showing all **components** of the system / subsystems and **how they interact** with each other.
- Our Enterprise Architecture Diagram of a Banking System (See Banking System Architecture Diagram in Module 1 LINK)
- Be sure to become familiar with this example as part of Module 1 material.
- It will also be referenced in later modules.

---

### ERD Diagram

- `ERD (Entity Relationship Diagram)`
  - This type of diagram is used to **show the design of a database**, focusing on **entities** (tables) and the **relationships** between them.

---

### Swim Lane Diagrams

- `Swim Lane Diagram`
  - This type of diagram is used to show the **flow of a process from start to finish.**
  - These diagrams also show **who is responsible for each step** in the process.
  - Much like a swimming pool with established lanes for each swimmer, a `swim lane` diagram has **horizontal or vertical lanes** belonging to each person involved in the process.
