# Web Security - JavaScript & Web Browsers

[Back](../index.md)

- [Web Security - JavaScript \& Web Browsers](#web-security---javascript--web-browsers)
  - [DOM \& JavaScript](#dom--javascript)
    - ['window' Objects](#window-objects)
    - [Advantage](#advantage)
  - [DHTML](#dhtml)
  - [JS](#js)
  - [JavaScript Injection](#javascript-injection)
    - [Controlling Scripts](#controlling-scripts)
  - [Web Browsers](#web-browsers)
  - [Same Origin Policy](#same-origin-policy)
  - [Browser Exploitation Framework (BeEF)](#browser-exploitation-framework-beef)
  - [Cross Site Scripting (XSS)](#cross-site-scripting-xss)
  - [Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)](#cross-site-request-forgery-csrf)

---

## DOM & JavaScript

- `DOM`

  - `Document Object Model`
  - a **hierarchical model** of a markup language
  - a platformand language-neutral interface that will allow programs and scripts to **dynamically access and update** the content, structure and style of documents.
  - The document can be further **processed** and the results of that processing can be incorporated back into the presented page.

- `Element Node` contains an **HTML tag**
- `Attribute Node` **describes** Element Node
- `Text Node` contains **text**

- HTML Page is a **hierarchy**:
  - The `Window` is the **parent** for a given web page.
  - `Document` is the child with the objects that are most commonly manipulated.
- DOM provides an `API (Application Programming Interface)` that allows programs to **interact with** HTML or XML documents.

---

### 'window' Objects

- `document`

  - The HTML document being displayed.
  - Using the global variable `document`, we can access all the nodes in the tree, as well as useful functions and other global information: title, referrer, body, images, links, forms, etc.

- `location`

  - The **URL of the document** being displayed in this window.
  - If you set this property to a new URL, that URL will be **loaded** into this window.

- `history`
  - Contains properties representing URLs the client **has previously visited**.

| Property           | Value                  |
| ------------------ | ---------------------- |
| `document.title`   | `"A Simple Document"`  |
| `document.fgColor` | `"#000000"`            |
| `document.bgColor` | `"#ffffff"`            |
| `location.href`    | `"http://artmack.com"` |
| `history.length`   | `"7"`                  |

---

### Advantage

- The `HTML Document Object Model` is a standard for **structuring data** on a web page.
- The HTML DOM is made available to **scripts** running in the
  browser, not just the browser itself!
- Scripts running in the browser can:
  - **Find** things out about the state of the page (loading, closing, etc.)
  - **Change** html nodes in response to events, including user requests
  - **Access** sensitive information (history, cookies, etc.)

---

## DHTML

- `DHTML (Dynamic HTML)` is a collection of technologies brought together to create interactive websites.

- DHTML includes:
  - `DOM (Document Object Model)`
  - **Scripting** language (JavaScript, Flash, etc.)
  - **Presentation** language (CSS etc.)
  - **Markup** languages (HTML, XML, etc.)

---

## JS

- `European Computer Manufacturers Association (ECMA)`

  - ECMAScript language is primary used in the form of **client-side JavaScript**.

- Note: JavaScript **cannot modify** **local** (client) files!

- JavaScript comes in two primary forms:

  - **Client-Side Scripting**
    - Takes places on the **client's machine**
    - Code is downloaded and **executed by the browser**, or run by a local **application**
    - JavaScript interpreters are **embedded** in several applications:
      - Adobe PDF, Apple's Dashboard Widgets, Microsoft's Gadgets, etc.
  - **Server-Side Scripting**
    - Takes place on the **server**
    - Usually requires **JavaScript engines** (V8, Mozilla Rhino or SpiderMonkey, etc.)
      - `node.js` is an example of this
    - Used primary for **CPU**-intensive operations
    - Can support thousands of **concurrent connections**
    - Typically, browsers communicate with server-side scripts via `AJAX` calls

- Location inside (X)HTML

  - External: `<script src="./js/myscript.js" type="text/javascript"></script>`
  - Embedded:

    ```html
    <script type="text/javascript">
      alert("Hello World!");
    </script>
    ```

  - Inline JS Code:
    ```html
    <script type="text/javascript">
      confirm("Do you want to delete this record?");
    </script>
    ```

---

- `Objects`
  - refers to windows, documents, images, tables, forms, buttons, links, etc.
  - Objects are an abstraction. They hold both data, and ways to manipulate the data.
- `Properties` are object **attributes**.

  - Properties are defined by using the object's name + `.` + property name.
    - Example: background color is expressed by: `document.bgcolor`

- `Methods` are **actions** applied to particular objects.

  - Methods are what objects can do.
    - Example: `document.write("Hello World")`

- `Events` **associate** an Object with an Action.

  - Typically, user actions **trigger** events.
    - Example: OnMouseover event handler action can change an image.
    - `onSubmit event handler sends a form.`

- Events are the major advantage of the JavaScript language that allow us to intercept not only an **interactive event** (mouse click, key pressed, element losing focus), but also **non-interactive events** (page loaded, error, browser type, etc)

- Pop-Up boxes

  - `alert("….some text….");`
    - displays text and the **Ok** button
  - `confirm("… some text…");`
    - displays text and **returns true** if the Ok button is Clicked and **false** if the Cancel button is clicked
  - `prompt("text", "default value");`
    - the user can **enter** an input value and then click Ok or Cancel

- Function
  - In general, function is a **block of code** that performs a single logical task
  - Functions must be **defined before** they can be used

```js
function DisplayMessage() {
  alert("Hello World!");
}
```

---

## JavaScript Injection

- Using JavaScript an individual can **manipulate** (add, delete, change) **HTML objects**.

- `JavaScript Injection`

  - a technique that allows an individual to **alter** the content of a web page.
  - It can be done by inserting and/or executing JS code.

- JavaScript can be **executed** not only from **HTML page**, but also from **browser's URL** or **console** using the javascript: command followed by any JavaScript command that can be executed.

---

- `javascript:alert();`
  - Can be used to retrieve information (or modify and retrieve):
    - `javascript:alert(document.cookie);`
    - `javascript:alert(document.forms[0].to.value="something");`
- `javascript:void();`

  - Can be used to modify items **without any visible notifications** - `javascript:void(document.cookie="authorization=true");`
  - In the example above a simple cookie allows/disallows access to a restricted page. We took advantage of this and granted ourselves the access by modifying the cookie.

- **HTML Form Modifications**
  - You can also use JavaScript to **modify HTML forms** (input names, values, etc.), including hidden forms, and disabled forms.

```html
<form action="process_order.php" method="post">
  <input type="hidden" name="item" value="Cool T-shirt" />
  <input type="hidden" name="price" value="99.99" />
</form>

<script>
  javascript: void (document.forms[0].price.value = "0.01");
</script>
```

---

### Controlling Scripts

- Disabling Scripts in Internet Explorer (IE)
- Disabling Scripts in FireFox (FF)
- Disabling Scripts in Google Chrome (GC)
- Disabling Scripts in Microsoft Edge

- Browsers allow you to **set exceptions** for **trusted sites**
- There are also **3rd party tools** that can be used to control script execution:
  - `NoScript` is a **Firefox extension** that controls the execution of JavaScript
  - `NotScripts` and `ScriptSafe` attempt to provide similar functionality for **Chrome**
- These tools allow you to **enable** script execution on **trusted** sites, but **disable** it when visiting unknown or **untrusted** sites

---

## Web Browsers

- Web Browsers handle data in different ways
- Ideally a web application looks and feels the same way across multiple browsers

  - Front end developers need to verify web designs in various browsers to ensure desired output
  - CSS reset scripts are commonly used

- Web Browsers use a `browser engine` / `Layout Engine` / `Rendering Engine`

---

- Browser Attacks
  - Attackers have since **shifted** their focus from attacking web servers to **attacking clients/users**
    - A server will typically be more secure than a user’s outdated web browser
  - A lot of Apps are now becoming more and more web based making the browser as the main interface tool
    - Makes it easier to sell SaS
    - Remote access to applications by users
    - Access to company data, etc.

---

## Same Origin Policy

- Scripts running on a page should only be able to **read** from, or **write** to another page if both pages have the **same origin**
- The Origin has three components:
  - Application layer `protocol`
    - e.g. HTTP or HTTPS
  - TCP `Port`
  - `Domain` Name
- This standard is supported by all major browsers

---

- Examples
  - `http://www.cnn.com`
    - The base site where the scripting code is running
  - `http://cnn.com`
    - Different site, gets redirected to www.cnn.com
    - Without redirect scripts **might not** work
  - `https://cnn.com`
    - This one **wouldn’t work** because the **port** is different
  - `http://cnn.com:8080/`
    - This one wouldn’t work because the **port** is different too

---

- Examples from Mutillidae
  - `http://folusername/mutillidae`
    - The base site where the scripting code is running
  - `http://www.folusername/mutillidae`
    - **Different site**, doesn't work
  - `http://folusername:8080/`
    - This one wouldn’t work because the **port** is different too

---

- It is important to keep in mind that this **only** applies `client-side`
  - The `server-side` code can access whatever it wants
- The whole idea is to **keep personalized information within the relevant site** / origin
- Exceptions

  - Developers can bypass the same-origin policy **in certain controlled ways**
    - This is allowed to provide more functionality for sites
  - Whenever exceptions are made there is the possibility of abuse

- The HTML `<script>` element can be used with the `src` attribute to **load script code from another domain**
  - The user will be navigating to your page, but the **code** the browser is running is being **loaded from somewhere** else
  - If there is malware at the other end it will look like it ran from your page

```html
<!-- jQuery exmaple -->
<script src="//ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.3/jquery.min.js"></script>
```

---

## Browser Exploitation Framework (BeEF)

- `BeEF`
  - a popular tool for **exploiting web browsers** and is natively found in Kali Linux
- It is browser based and can be launched by clicking on the icon, or by running the executable file found in `/usr/share/beef-xss`

- works by **“Hooking” browsers**
  - This involves a client clicking on a link that contains a JavaScript file that will tie their browser back to the BeEF server
    - `hook.js`
- The Browser will remain “hooked” as long as the user has the **window** that hooked it **open**

- BeEF uses a “traffic light” system for payloads

- Once a browser is **hooked**, the attacker can perform various actions against the compromised browser
  - BeEF lists these actions in “**Command Modules**”
  - Information **gathering** / Software **detection**
  - DOM **manipulation**
  - **JavaScript** Execution
  - **Credential** Excavation
  - Browser **Redirection**
  - **Cookie** Information
  - Etc.

---

## Cross Site Scripting (XSS)

- `Cross Site Scripting (XSS)`
  - an attack in which an **attacker** **injects** malicious executable scripts into the code of a **trusted application** or website.
  - a type of security vulnerability found in web applications where an attacker **injects malicious scripts** into webpages viewed by other users.
  - These scripts can execute in the v**ictim's browser**, potentially allowing the attacker to **steal sensitive information**, such as cookies, session tokens, or even impersonate users.

---

## Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)

- `Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)`
  - an attack that forces **authenticated users** to submit a request to a Web application against which they are currently authenticated.

---

[TOP](#web-security---javascript--web-browsers)
