# RPA - wk04

[Back](../rpa.md)

- [RPA - wk04](#rpa---wk04)
  - [Controlling Flow](#controlling-flow)
    - [Conditionals](#conditionals)
    - [If](#if)
    - [If/else](#ifelse)
    - [Nested if](#nested-if)
    - [Switch](#switch)
    - [Operators](#operators)
    - [Loops](#loops)

---

## Controlling Flow

### Conditionals

- `Conditionals`
  - allow you to **execute blocks** of actions only **if a given condition is met**.
  - If the condition is **false**, the block of actions will be **skipped**.
- Using conditionals, you can ensure certain elements have a wished value or state before performing other actions.

  - For example, you can check if a file exists before trying to rename it.

- Power automate(PA):
  - Case
  - Default case
  - Else
  - Else if
  - If
  - Switch

---

### If

- An If action consists of **two operands** and an **operator**.
- The platform supports the most significant **logical operations**, such as equal, not equal, and greater than.

---

### If/else

- An `If` may optionally contain an `Else` action. The `Else` action defines the logic to be executed when the **If condition is invalid**.
- It should be placed **between** the `If` and the `End` actions.

---

### Nested if

- Nested IF functions, meaning one **IF function inside of another**, allow you to **test multiple criteria** and increases the number of possible outcomes.

---

### Switch

- `Switch` - **Dispatches execution** to different parts of the switch body **based on the value of the expression**,
- `Case` -An **expression** that, if **met**, a block of **actions** associated with that particular case **runs**,
- `Default case` - A block of actions that is run, **if no case expression** has been met in the switch body.

- PA:
  - switch
  - case
  - case
  - default case
  - end

---

### Operators

- `>`
- contain
- is empty
- start with
- does not end with
- is blank

---

### Loops

- A `loop` is a sequence of **instructions** that is **continually repeated** until a certain condition is reached.
- Typically, a certain process is done, such as getting an item of data and changing it, and then some condition is checked such as whether a counter has reached a prescribed number.

- Iterates a block of actions for a **specified number of times**.
  - loop
    - start from
    - end to
    - increment by
- Iterates a block of actions **as long as a specified condition** proves to be true

  - loop condition while:
    - A less than 100

- `Next loop`
  - Forces the next iteration of the block to take place **skipping any actions that follow**.
- `Exit Loop`
  - **Terminates the loop** and the flow resumes at the next action or statement following the loop.
- `For Each`
  - Iterates over **items in a list**, **data table** or **data row** allowing a block of action to be executed repeatedly
